Light Manipulation and Nanoparticle Sorting in Optofluidic Chips 
This doctorate thesis focuses on the light manipulation and nanoparticle sorting using 
optofluidic and silicon photonic technologies. Specifically, in the study of light 
manipulation, the light propagation in diffusion-induced gradient index (GRIN) profiles 
is investigated and used as a signal for chemical sensing. Then the GRIN profile is 
optimized to design an optofluidic lens with improved focusing power. In the study of 
nanoparticle sorting, the particle motion in an optical field is studied for biomolecule 
separation. 
Firstly, the light propagation in optofluidic waveguides is studied. It is found that 
light focuses periodically with an increasing focal length related to liquid properties. 
Theoretical models of the index profile and the light propagation are established to study 
the contributing factors to the light focal length. The influence of Péclet number and 
interface position on the light propagation is then investigated experimentally. The focal 
length is exploited to determine diffusion coefficient and monitor chemical reactions.  
Secondly, an optofluidic hyperbolic secant (HS) lens is designed to improve the 
focusing power. The optimized index profile is derived based on coordinate 
transformation to suppress the optical aberrations. A microfluidic gradient generator is 
designed and fabricated to generate the ideal index profile. The focal lengths are 
investigated experimentally at different divergence angles and off-center positions. The 
focusing experiment with multiple light sources is also conducted. 
Thirdly, the motion of nanoparticles in near-field lattices is studied for biomolecule 
separation. The optical field in different waveguide configurations is investigated using 
FDTD simulation. The chip fabrication, flow control, surface treatment and experimental 
setup are explained in detail. The force-field analysis is conducted to investigate the 
distinct force level and its influence on the particle trajectories. In the particle separation 
experiment, the 500-nm polystyrene particles are successfully separated out from the 200-
nm, 300-nm and 500-nm particle mixtures. In the bacteria trapping and alignment 
experiment, the parallel trapping and alignment of Shigella are performed. 
In conclusion, the unique light behavior in optofluidic waveguides is investigated and 
used for chemical sensing. Then an optofluidic HS lens is developed to improve the 
focusing power. Finally, nanoparticle sorting using near-field optics is studied 
theoretically and experimentally. 

-----
