Abstract 
 
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) is a major technical challenge for solar photovoltaic (PV) 
systems. As the use of PV systems has increased in recent years, the problems of electromagnetic 
interference (EMI) of PV systems are becoming more evident. The main source of EMI in these 
systems are the power converters, such as DC-DC converter and DC-AC inverters, which uses 
high frequency switching power electronic devices. These power converters transmit conducted 
noise emission between, at both input side, where PV panels are connected, and output side, where 
loads and AC grid are connected. At the output side the conducted emissions must comply with 
the relevant EMI regulation to prevent interference to loads or the AC gird. Although similar 
regulation does not apply on the DC input of a PV system, the high frequency switching converters 
with its DC input connected to the PV panel causes conducted emissions to propagate along the 
DC cables. These emissions can then radiate through the DC cable and the PV panel, which serve 
as unintentional antennas. 
Since the PV systems are becoming widely accepted in both residential and industrial applications, 
it is necessary to evaluate the EMI of the system systematically so that it does not interfere with 
other electronic devices. In order to evaluate the EMI of a system, a proper EMI model of the 
system should be developed. This research therefore proposes to develop a measurement-based 
EMI model of PV systems. This approach provides simple yet accurate model for analyzing EMI 
of a system. Using the method, separate noise equivalent models for common-mode (CM) and 
differential-mode (DM) emissions of a PV system are developed. The model can then be used to 
study the conducted emissions and radiated emission from the system. Additionally, the model 
will be useful for designing optimized EMI filters for the system. 
In order to develop accurate EMI model of a PV system, the noise source model of the power 
converters and PV panels should be extracted at operating conditions. For this purpose, an in-
circuit measurement approach is used to extract the noise source model at the DC input of a PV 
system under its actual operating conditions, which provides adequate information for EMI 
modeling and mitigation purposes without the full knowledge of the internal circuit of the PV 
system. The noise source model allows us to estimate noise emissions and evaluate the 
effectiveness of the filter for EMI mitigation without a trial-and error process. 

-----
Author’s Publications 
 
Journal Paper 
• M. Prajapati and K. Y. See, "Extraction of Equivalent Noise Source Model from 
Photovoltaic Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility, 2018. 
 
 
Conference Papers 
• M. Prajapati and K. Y. See, "Extraction of equivalent impedance of photovoltaic panel 
under its actual operating conditions," 2018 IEEE International Symposium on 
Electromagnetic 
Compatibility 
and 
2018 
IEEE 
Asia-Pacific 
Symposium 
on 
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC/APEMC), Suntec City, Singapore, 2018, pp. 1145-
1149. 
• S. B. Rathnayaka, K. Y. See, M. Prajapati, K. Li, N. B. Narampanawe and F. Fan, 
"Inductive coupling method for on-line frequency response analysis (FRA) for transformer 
winding diagnostic," TENCON 2017 - 2017 IEEE Region 10 Conference, Penang, 2017, 
pp. 88-92. 
• S. B. Rathnayaka, K. Y. See, M. Prajapati, K. Li, N. B. Narampanawe and F. Fan, 
"Influence of temperature on transformer's winding defect analysis using inductive 
probes," 2017 Progress in Electromagnetics Research Symposium - Fall (PIERS - FALL), 
Singapore, 2017, pp. 2285-2289. 

-----
