 
i 
Integrated Photonics Chip for Quantum Key Distribution 
 
Silicon photonics technology exploits silicon as an optical medium to build 
versatile systems. It has a huge and growing market in the field of telecommunication, 
sensing, display, biomedical instrument, etc. The flexible modularity and stability of 
silicon photonic systems provide an unprecedented opportunity for next-generation 
quantum key distribution (QKD). This doctorate thesis focuses on the design, 
simulation, fabrication and testing of integrated silicon photonic system. Crucial 
components for silicon photonics applications are designed and tested, such as grating 
coupler, polarization beam splitter, polarization rotator, modulator, detector, ring 
resonator, interferometer, etc. Using the available components, quantum key 
distribution system using GG02 protocol is also demonstrated. 
The thesis focused on three parts, the passive components, the active 
components and the implementation of QKD system. For the passive components, the 
2-dimensional grating coupler can be used as a path-polarization mode converter. The 
polarization beam splitter can be used to separate or combine two polarization state on 
chip. The polarization rotator can be used to rotate the polarization state between 
transverse electric and transverse magnetic mode. All the polarization manipulation 
components are important for expanding the available degree-of-freedom of the photon. 
Mach-Zehnder interferometer and ring resonator are important components that can be 
used in the modulator. The performance is also tested. 
Active components including modulator and detector are studied in this thesis. 
The thermal optical modulator and carrier injection modulator are designed and tested. 
On-chip germanium detector is also characterized. As required by continuous variable 
quantum information experiment, a self-built balanced homodyne detector using the 
on-chip detector and off-chip commercialized detector are built and tested. Together 
with the passive components, a full component library for on-chip linear optics 
applications is provided.  
Specifically, a QKD chip using GG02 Gaussian modulation protocol is 
designed and fabricated. The basic working principle of the GG02 protocol is analyzed. 
The secure key rate is calculated based on the total loss and excessive noise of the 

-----
 
ii 
system. The test shows the secure key-rate under collective attack can reach 0.83 MHz 
at 0 km and 9.3 kHz at 100 km distance. 
Since the QKD chip is fabricated on the standard silicon photonic platform, it 
can be integrated onto a single chip with the classical communication device and even 
the controlling integrated circuit. This will lead to the next generation of a hybrid 
quantum-classical communication network with more compact components and pave 
the way to largely expand the market of QKD system. 
 
Publication list 
 
G. Zhang, J. Y. Haw, X. J. Jia, X. L. Su, J. F. Fitzsimons, X. Q. Zhou, W. Ser, L. C. 
Kwek and A. Q. Liu. "Integrated Silicon Photonic Chip: Continuous-variable 
Quantum Key Distribution." Nature communication. (Preparation) 
Feng, X.*, Zhang, G.*, Chin, L. K., Liu, A. Q., & Liedberg, B. (2017). Highly Sensitive, 
Label-Free Detection of 2, 4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic Acid Using an Optofluidic 
Chip. ACS sensors, 2(7), 955-960. (*Equal contribution) 
 
G. Zhang, L. Cao, J. Y. Haw, X. J. Jia, X. L. Su, L. C. Kwek, J. F. Fitzsimons, P. K. 
Lam, X. Q. Zhou, W. B. Gao, J. B. Gong, Y. D. Chong, A Szameit, W. Ser and A. 
Q. Liu, " Integrated Chip for Continuous-variable Quantum Key Distribution using 
Silicon Photonic Fabrication." Lasers and Electro-Optics (CLEO): Science and 
Innovations. Optical Society of America, 2018. (Oral presentation) 
G. Zhang, J. Wu, S. Yu, L. C. Kwek, J. B. Gong, W. B. Gao, Y. D. Chong, W. Ser and 
A. Q. Liu. "An integrated photonic chip for continuous-variable quantum key 
distribution." Lasers and Electro-Optics (CLEO): Science and Innovations. Optical 
Society of America, 2017. (Oral presentation) 
G. Zhang, J. G. Huang, W. Ser, W. B. Gao, Y. D. Chong, J. B. Gong, L. C. Kwek and 
A. Q. Liu. "Quantum photonic wavelength conversion and modulation using low 
loss aluminum nitride." Lasers and Electro-Optics (CLEO): Science and 
Innovations. Optical Society of America, 2017. (Oral presentation) 

-----
