Abstract 
Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) is one of the supporting technologies to 
materialize the Internet of Things (IoT). However, a large scale deployment of 
the WSN faces multifarious challenges. WSN node size and maintenance cost 
incurred by periodic energy source replacement are among them. From the 
perspectives of energy sources, these two challenges can be better addressed 
by Wireless Power Transfer (WPT) technologies in comparison with energy 
scavengers or traditional energy storages. Omnidirectional Electro-magnetic 
Radiation WPT technology appears to be a viable choice. Hence, this work 
proposed various circuit design techniques in developing the dedicated Power 
Management Integrated Circuit (PMIC) structures to support implementation of 
such WPT technology.  
 
In detail, this thesis lists (i) a new trimming circuit structure for a sub-1-
volt CMOS Voltage Reference (VR), (ii) a controllable Negative Source 
Degenerating Resistance (NSDR), and (iii) a compensator-less analogue 
controller for a Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) Discontinuous Current Mode 
(DCM) Boost DC-DC Converter. To elaborate, the trimming effort aims at 
minimizing unwanted temperature coefficient due to the finite resistance of the 
trimming switches so as to improve the overall Temperature Coefficient (TC) of 
a CMOS Voltage Reference (VR). Moreover, the negative resistance designed 
is dependent on the load current of an Output Capacitor-Less (OCL) Low Drop-
Out Voltage Regulator (LDO). It is made to boost the gain of the LDO by 
improving the current efficiency. Lastly, the compensator-less controller is 
meant to minimize power and area concern brought by the compensator in 
switching DC-DC converter. 
 
Subsequently, structures of three key PMIC building blocks, such as a 
VR, an OCL LDO and a boost DC-DC switching converter, are proposed based 
on the aforementioned circuit design techniques. A trimming circuit is proposed 
for a sub-1-volt CMOS voltage reference based on threshold voltage difference 
(ΔVth) approach. Implemented in 180 μm CMOS technology, the trimmed 
CMOS VR consumes 0.941 μA under supply input of 0.8 V with a TC of 26.6 
ppm/°C and a Power Supply Rejection (PSR) larger than 60 dB at 1 MHz. The 

-----
trimmed VR is functional under supply input from 0.7 V to 1.5 V. 
 
Furthermore, a fast-transient OCL LDO that is based on a load-
dependent NSDR at the input stage of its Error Amplifier (EA) is proposed. By 
having the resistance of the NSDR varies with respect to the load current of the 
OCL LDO, no compensation capacitor is needed for frequency compensation 
to ensure stability. In this manner, the overall OCL LDO is implemented in 180 
μm CMOS process. It achieves a fast load transient response of 3 μs in a load 
step up and down between 0 mA to 100 mA in 100 ns. The OCL LDO functions 
under supply input from 0.8 V to 1.5V, across which, it consumes quiescent 
current of no more than 20 μA in zero load condition. 
 
In addition, a compensator-less PWM DCM Boost DC-DC converter 
based on a Square-Root Voltage Mode (SRVM) controller is also proposed. 
The SRVM controller achieve voltage regulation by implementing analog signal 
processing unit to sense the load current and convert it into a PWM voltage 
control signals to drive the power switches. The block level design of the 
proposed Boost DC-DC converter is simulated in MATLAB. It achieves output 
ripples of 0.42% of its steady-state output of 3 V. Output overshoots of 3 mV 
with 4 μs recovery time are observed during step-down load transients between 
40 and 0 mA in 100 ns. Correspondingly, output undershoots during step-up 
load transients are less than 10.8 mV with a recovery time of 8.9 μs. The boost 
converter can start up from its 0.9-V input autonomously based on a proposed 
two-phase start-up control scheme. On top of this, a novel signal boosting 
technique is presented to ensure gate driving voltages for MOSFET switches 
as high as attainable to minimize the conduction losses. At the steady state, the 
boost converter operates with a fixed 1-MHz switching frequency with a 1 μH 
inductor and a 10 μF capacitor with the maximum load current of 40 mA. 
 
Overall, all proposed designs achieve supply and load independence as 
well as power and area efficiency in addressing the unique PMIC design 
challenges dedicated to the Omnidirectional EM Radiation WPT. 
 

-----
