 
 
Abstract 
In recent electronics industry, power management plays a significant role to 
extend the battery life of battery-powered portable electronic devices. Due to the push 
for low-power CMOS circuits, the power-aware design agenda will be addressed in the 
power management circuits. Besides, turning to sub-90nm CMOS technologies in 
System-on-Chip (SoC) environment, the performances are often significantly 
influenced by process, supply voltage and temperature (PVT) variations. These two 
key issues impose design challenges to circuits that are able to sustain the targeted 
specifications and to provide good fabrication yield. To tackle the stated problems, this 
work aims to explore the research, design, analysis and implementation of low-power 
PVT-aware circuits for power management applications in advanced nanometer 
CMOS technologies.  
In an exemplary application of a smart power system that the supply voltage can 
be a function of device’s threshold voltage (VTH) to counteract the process variation, a 
threshold voltage based reference circuit is often needed in the design. This thesis will 
present the MOSFET VTH measurement circuit that employs a dual-segment nonlinear 
temperature compensation method to provide thermal stability. Besides, the supply 
insensitivity is another key design parameter to be addressed in this work. The 
measured results have indicated that the VTH measurement circuit yields T.C. of 28.7 
ppm/oC, power supply rejection (PSR) of -43.5 dB at 10 MHz and line sensitivity of 
70.8 ppm/V. The performance metrics are better than those of reported works. 
In another circuit of the above power system, it requires a stable current source. 
This work presents a new current source architecture which is the embodiment of a 
process-tolerant bias current circuit and a scaled process-tracking bias voltage source 

-----
 
 
for the dedicated temperature-compensated voltage-to-current (VI) conversion. The 
measurement results have shown that the current source consumes a quiescent power 
of 7.18 μW whilst achieving a sensitivity figure-of-merit (FOM) of 2.34% in terms of 
total PVT variation. Such the low-power low-sensitive features are better than most of 
the reported works and comparable with the state of art. 
On top of that, there exists another challenge from the non-ideal CMOS stress 
effect that causes the performance degradation in the PVT-aware circuits. In this work, 
a new electrical model is proposed to predict the stress effect that impacts on the 
electrical performance of reference circuits. It has validated that there is a reasonable 
correlation between the model prediction results and the measurement results of the 
above stated voltage and current reference circuits. Of particular noted, this is the first 
electrical model that addresses the impact of stress effect on the reference circuit 
designs in the field. 
In the low-dropout regulator dedicated to power management applications where 
low power, low voltage and sustainability of transient metrics are concerned, the 
circuit techniques and the PVT-aware design method are the major focus of this work. 
First, a new low-voltage transient-assisted embedded driving stage (TAEDS) with low-
output impedance is presented. This aims to enhance the slew rate at the gate of power 
transistor whilst allowing low quiescent current under low supply design. Second, the 
transient-assisted technique together with the multiple feedback circuit topology, PVT-
aware power transistor biasing network and the aforementioned constant current 
source architecture are then applied to realize a low-power PVT-aware LDO regulator 
in 40nm CMOS technology. This results in the performance-aware regulator which can 
sustain low undershoot/overshoot effect, reduce speed degradation, maintain good 
stability and eliminate the circuit trimming in the context of total PVT variation and 

-----
 
 
low-quiescent power constraint. The simulation results have confirmed the circuit 
operation for a full load current of 100 mA at a capacitive load of 100 pF even under a 
0.75V supply. It consumes a quiescent power of 21.2 μW whilst settling within 320 ns 
during full load current step transitions. A transient FOM of 3.4 fs is obtained. The 
process corner simulations have validated the regulator’s sustainable transient 
performance metrics under PVT variations. 

-----
