Abstract 
 
This thesis is a reconciliation between multiple bodies of work with one 
common objective which is to “identify the support” under unfavourable environment 
with main focus on DOA estimation and EIT application. The term “support” is 
commonly used in the compressed sensing and sparse signal recovery communities 
which essentially means the “active parameters” in a system of linear equations. It 
is important to note that a technique that is used to identify a set of active support 
under unfavourable environment should have a robust characteristic. Although with 
one common theme shared among the works done within this thesis, this thesis can 
be divided into two major parts based on the applications’ environment. 
 
 
The first part is the support identification under a process expressible by 
Fredholm integral equation of the first kind. For this problem, a research topic which 
is known as “Electrical impedance tomography (EIT),” is chosen as a representative 
application for a collection of problems expressible by the Fredholm integral equation 
of the first kind. The Physics of EIT can be explained by Maxwell's equations under 
Quasi-Static environment. Under such a scenario, the energy dissipated from the 
source is spread throughout the region (domain) in a non-linear fashion, which leads 
to low signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) and support ambiguity issues. Multiple real-life 
applications fall under this type of problem such as medical and geophysical 
subsurface imaging, deconvolution, and image deblurring.  
 
The EIT is an imaging technique which estimates internal impedance distribution of 
a “subject under test (SUT)” that sometimes called “medium” based on data collected 
from the medium's boundary. The “tomographic reconstruction” or “the process of 
estimating the medium's internal impedance distribution" can be accomplished 
through solving a mathematical problem known as an “inverse problem.” Due to 
Quasi-Static nature of this modality, the image reconstruction of the EIT is known 
to be one of the most severely ill-posed inverse problems. The image reconstruction 
problem in EIT will be analyzed from two different perspectives. Firstly, this problem 
will be analyzed through the lens of a discrete ill-posed inverse problem from an 
applied Mathematics community perspective. Secondly, this problem will be re-
analyzed through the lens of array signal processing/beamforming framework from 
the signal processing community perspective. While exploring the EIT image 
reconstruction techniques, we also observed that although the EIT system can be 
implemented economically, the implementation process is not completely 
straightforward. Therefore, we had also implemented an EIT prototyping system to 
experiment with different data format. A robust, economical, and uncomplicated 
implementation framework was developed with the hope that it will be beneficial for 
those who are interested in image reconstruction task without the access to a full 
functioning commercialized EIT system.   
 
 
 
The second part is the support identification under α-stable distributed 
noise, which is not uncommon in the real-life scenario. In this case, the additive 
noise is a cause of the issue as opposed to the previous case where the environment 
itself is the issue. Additionally, several improvements of a beamforming technique 
called MUSIC-like algorithm will be explored under both Gaussian and α-stable 
distributed noise. The signal model used in this part is based on the solution of a 
wave function impinging on sensor array located at different locations. The main 
focus of this part is performance improvement of the beamforming framework for 
DOA estimation under different noise scenarios. Three different approaches for 
estimating a relaxation parameter (an essential parameter used in the MUSIC-like 

-----
algorithm) are presented. By experimenting with different approaches, an adaptive 
framework for relaxation parameter was observed to have potential for further 
investigation. Hence, the performance improvement of the MUSIC-like algorithm was 
further explored through the directional adaptive framework under both Gaussian 
and α-stable distributed noise. It was also compared with the conventional MUSIC 
algorithm coupled pre-conditioned covariance matrix.  
 
 
 

-----
