 
Page 1 of 1 
 
 
 
Place detection through analysis of descriptor sequences of 3D point clouds 
Place detection through analysis of 
descriptor sequences of 3D point clouds 
ABSTRACT 
Place awareness is a critical component of safe decision-making in autonomous mobile 
robotics. Significance of place detection is more appreciable in large-scale outdoor 
environment in which, safety measures, mission planning, and responsive intelligent behavior 
depend on individual circumstances of each specific place. Besides, recall of revisited places 
assists the generations of loop closure and map merging clues for mapping components of 
mobile robots in large-scale outdoor exploration missions. In GPS-denied outdoor 
environment, place identification confronts challenges caused by viewpoint uncertainties, 
Field of view limitations, and environmental changes. These challenges contribute to 
inconsistency of feature extraction and feature association in such environment. The place 
identification methodology presented in this thesis, introduces novel ideas to address all the 
aforementioned concerns by proper sensing of dense and uniform 3D point clouds, and by 
incorporation of a non-feature-based descriptor for characterization, which to the best of 
knowledge was never applied for place detection before. Moreover, this research introduces 
a new approach for clustering the environment to meaningful and distinct places. A novel 
procedure for confident identification of revisited places through analysis of sequences and 
similarity patterns is proposed as well. Experiments using the custom-made sensory system 
demonstrate the robustness of the methodology in clustering the explored environment to 
meaningful places, which is attributed to the non-appearance-based characterization. 
Moreover, the experiments demonstrate highly confident capability of recalling the revisited 
places and previously experienced scenarios, which is attributed to matching sets of 
sequences and pattern of similarity values rather than matching a single observation to 
another. 
 
 

-----
