Implementation of Full Carbon-Based Three-Dimensional Interconnects 
Abstract 
As the scaling of device size is reaching to the fundamental physical limitations, the escalating 
cost of following Moore’s Law has pivoted the semiconductor industry’s focus to More-than-
Moore (MtM) technologies. Supported by advanced packaging solutions, high-density 
heterogeneous integration of analog/mixed-signal, RF, MEMS and image sensing with CMOS in 
a variety of 2.5D and 3D architectures at system level is expected to be one of the main driving 
forces for the future growth of electronic products.  
Carbon nanomaterials, graphene and carbon nanotubes (CNTs) emerge as promising materials 
for the integration in the next-generation advanced packaging technologies in recent years. The 
main benefits of carbon nanomaterials lie in their excellent electrical, mechanical and thermal 
properties: i.e. their low resistivity, high current density, low coefficient of thermal expansion 
(CTE) and high thermal conductivity. These advantages enable carbon nanomaterials to be a 
highly attractive candidate as both on-chip and off-chip interconnects in 3D integrations.  
Most recently, full carbon-based three-dimensional (3D) interconnects through an integration of 
one-dimensional (1D) carbon nanotubes and two-dimensional (2D) graphene were proposed, 
expected to have better out-of-plane and in-plane properties than their metal counterparts. In this 
thesis, we designed and developed the fabrication process flow to implement CNT-graphene 
heterostructure as filler of through silicon vias (TSVs) for novel 3D interconnects. In this 
approach, vertical-aligned CNTs replaced the conventional metals in TSVs, while the traditional 
horizontal metal lines were replaced by graphene. The key challenges include, but are not limited 
to (1) process development of high density CNT bundles growth within TSVs on the bottom 
graphene electrodes, (2) transfer process of a top graphene layer onto the as-grown CNT bundles 
and (3) electrical studies of the contact formed between CNTs and top graphene layer after the 
assembly process.  
One of the significant outcomes of this thesis is to successfully demonstrate the growth of CNTs 
within TSVs on the bottom graphene electrodes. Firstly, the fabrication processes of top wafer 
with TSVs of various diameters (5-50μm) and bottom wafer with patterned graphene electrodes 
and catalyst deposition were successfully developed. Next, top TSV wafer and bottom graphene 

-----
wafer were bonded and manually ground, followed by wet and dry etching to completely remove 
the handling wafer and buried oxide to expose the underlying TSVs. CNT growth was conducted 
successfully both within TSVs and free-standing on the graphene layer. However, compared to 
the free-standing growth with sufficient length (~334μm) and high density estimated as ~1011 
cm-2, there were few CNTs grown within the via holes. The inhibited growth of CNTs within the 
unfilled-TSV can possibly be attributed to several process-engineering steps involved e.g. wafer-
bonding, grinding and wet/dry etching.  
On the other hand, transfer process of a top graphene layer onto the as-grown CNT bundles was 
successfully performed with direct graphene-to-CNT contact at the interface. Four-point-probe 
(4PP) I-V characterization suggests that an ohmic contact was achieved between the graphene 
and CNTs. Low CNT bump resistance of 2.1Ω for 90,000 µm2 CNT area including the 
CNT/graphene contact resistance was obtained, demonstrating reduction of contact resistance 
between CNT and Au under the same fabrication and measurement conditions. This part of the 
thesis presents the preliminary results for the assembly process of top-transferred graphene on 
CNTs and the electrical property of direct CNT/graphene contact, paving the way for the 
implementation of full carbon-based 3D interconnects. 
For the future work, further modification and optimization of the process steps need to be done 
in order to attain higher CNT fillings within the TSVs on the bottom graphene electrodes. 
Moreover, fusion of the graphene and CNTs with carbon covalent bonds needs to be explored in 
order to further decrease the contact resistance and enhance the reliability of the carbon-based 
3D interconnects. 

-----
