Abstract 
In the recent years, pulse width modulated (PWM) variable frequency drives (VFDs) 
are commonly used in modern control of electro-mechanical drive systems. Although the 
presence of insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) and higher switching frequencies help 
to reduce harmonics and increase operation efficiency, they subject motors to a high 
frequency common-mode (CM) voltage and resultant CM current. Bearing currents 
induced by the CM voltage and its steep rising edges have the potential to create premature 
failure inside motor bearings, such as frosting, fluting and pitting. Consequently, new drive 
installations can fail within months after start-up, which results in unplanned and costly 
system downtime. Thus, it is significantly important to understand the different cause-and-
effect chains of different types of bearing current, to find cost-effective mitigation 
techniques for a certain drive configuration. A prototype with commercial inverter and a 
5.5 kW induction motor is developed to analyze the mechanism of bearing degradation. 
One efficient remedy is the design of CM filter to reduce the CM current entering the 
induction machine so as to weaken the circulating bearing current which is dominant for 
large-sized machines. Optimized CM filter design requires accurate knowledge of both 
source and the termination impedance. In order to measure the source and termination 
impedance, methods for online impedance extraction are reviewed, such as inductive 
coupling method and two-port ABCD network approach. However, existing methods 
require further improvement when it comes to the motor drive system due to the lack of 
phase information or insufficient signal-to-noise ratio. An improved in-circuit impedance 
extraction method is proposed to determine the CM impedance for a motor drive system. 

-----
Proposed method offers increased signal-to-noise ratio with amplifier while protecting the 
test instrument with either bidirectional coupler or external attenuator. The validity of the 
proposed method is demonstrated on several measurements of passive elements. Based on 
the measured source and termination impedances, an optimized CM choke is designed 
systematically to achieve the required attenuation without a trial-and-error approach. With 
the information of noise termination impedances, one can also evaluate the effect of the 
mode transformation on the CM filter design in a quantitative way. 
 
 
 
 

-----
Publication list 
· Fan F, See K Y, Banda J K, et al. Investigation and mitigation of premature bearing 
degradation in motor drive system[J]. IEEE Electromagnetic Compatibility Magazine, 
2019, 8(1): 75-81. 
· Fan F, See K Y, Li K, et al. In-circuit common-mode impedance measurement for 
motor 
drive 
system[C]//2017 
Asia-Pacific 
International 
Symposium 
on 
Electromagnetic Compatibility (APEMC). IEEE, 2017: 1-3. 
· Fan F, See K Y, Banda J K, et al. Simulation of three-phase motor drive system with 
bearing discharge process[C]//2017 Progress in Electromagnetics Research 
Symposium-Fall (PIERS-FALL). IEEE, 2017: 2091-2097. 
· Fan F, See K Y, Li K, et al. Efficient inductive coupled in-circuit impedance extraction 
with enhanced SNR and instrument protection[C]//2018 IEEE International 
Symposium on Electromagnetic Compatibility and 2018 IEEE Asia-Pacific 
Symposium on Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC/APEMC). IEEE, 2018: 1288-
1292. 
· Svimonishvili T, Fan F, See K Y, et al. High-frequency model and simulation for the 
investigation of bearing current in inverter-driven induction machines[C]//2016 IEEE 
Region 10 Conference (TENCON). IEEE, 2016: 55-59. 
· Zaixing W, Fei F, Seng L J, et al. Reduction of common mode voltage of 2-level 
voltage source inverter-fed machine[C]//2017 Asian Conference on Energy, Power 
and Transportation Electrification (ACEPT). IEEE, 2017: 1-5. 
· Liul Y, Fei F, See K Y, et al. Switching Devices Comparison and RC Snubber for 
Ringing Suppression in one Single Leg T-type Converter[C]//2018 Asian Conference 
on Energy, Power and Transportation Electrification (ACEPT). IEEE, 2018: 1-5. 
· Li K R, See K Y, Fan F. Study of EMI filter performance without LISN based on noise 
impedances[C]//2017 Asia-Pacific International Symposium on Electromagnetic 
Compatibility (APEMC). IEEE, 2017: 115-117. 
· Rathnayaka S B, See K Y, Prajapati M, Kangrong L, Nishshanka B N, Fei F. Inductive 

-----
coupling method for on-line frequency response analysis (FRA) for transformer 
winding diagnostic[C]//TENCON 2017-2017 IEEE Region 10 Conference. IEEE, 
2017: 88-92. 
· Rathnayaka S B, See K Y, Prajapati M, Kangrong L, Nishshanka B N, Fei F. Influence 
of temperature on transformer’s winding defect analysis using inductive 
probes[C]//2017 Progress in Electromagnetics Research Symposium-Fall (PIERS-
FALL). IEEE, 2017: 2285-2289. 

-----
