Telling "what is where", object detection is a fundamental problem in computer vision and has a 
broad range of applications such as video surveillance and autonomous driving. One major 
challenge of object detection comes from large intra-category appearance variations which are 
caused by factors including subcategory, viewpoint, deformation and occlusion. Large appearance 
variations make it difficult to model an object category properly such that the object category is 
well distinguished from other object categories as well as backgrounds. Appearance variations 
resulting from subcategories and viewpoints are usually handled by clustering object examples of 
a category into groups each of which represents one subcategory or viewpoint and then learning 
a detector for each group. For dealing with appearance variations due to deformations and 
occlusions, part-based detection methods have demonstrated their promise by integrating a set 
of part detectors to form a part detector ensemble. This thesis studies how to learn detector 
ensembles to better address deformations and occlusions, particularly the latter situation, for 
generic object detection as well as pedestrian detection. 
For generic object detection, two approaches are proposed to handle deformations and 
occlusions respectively based on a classic part detector ensemble, deformable part model (DPM). 
The former discovers a set of non-rectangular parts which can well fit object structures to replace 
the original rectangular parts in the DPM. The discovered non-rectangular parts can better 
capture the appearance of local regions and structural deformations of objects. The latter 
discovers a set of representative and discriminative occlusion patterns which share the same set 
of parts from a DPM trained on fully visible object examples. The discovered occlusion patterns 
are themselves DPMs, and when properly tuned, can be applied directly or combined with state-
of-the-art detectors, e.g. Faster R-CNN for improving detection performance and achieving part-
level occlusion reasoning. 
For pedestrian detection, two approaches are developed to improve two modules of a commonly 
used framework of learning a part detector ensemble respectively for handling occlusions. The 
first approach focuses on how to integrate part detectors properly to reduce negative effects from 
unreliable and irrelevant part detectors on heavily occluded pedestrian detection. The second 
approach aims to learn reliable part detectors jointly by sharing a set of decision trees among the 
part detectors to exploit part correlations and also reduce the computational cost of applying 
these part detectors. Experimental results on pedestrian detection benchmark datasets show 
promising performance of the two approaches for detecting partially occluded pedestrians, 
especially heavily occluded ones. 
 

-----
