Title: 
Compact ultrafast mid-infrared fiber laser – Pulse delivery and compression using antiresonant hollow-
core fiber 
Abstract: 
The ultrafast pulse itself has enabled time-resolved studies of fast molecular and atomic-scale dynamics 
leading to a Nobel prize for groundbreaking work in femtochemistry. Molecules exhibit bond stretching, 
vibrations and rotations; the characteristic energy associated with many of these excitations correspond 
to mid-infrared photon energies.  Coherent broadband mid-infrared light useful for molecular 
spectroscopy can be generated using infrared pulses through a nonlinear process - supercontinuum 
generation. The high peak power accorded by ultrafast pulses with sufficient pulse energies makes it 
possible to drive nonlinear processes. 
A compact thulium-based fiber laser system was developed to produce high-energy ultrafast 2 μm 
pulses. The high energy output was achieved using the chirped pulse amplification technique, through a 
multi-pass chirped volume Bragg grating compressor. Fiber lasers are particularly attractive as 2 μm 
sources as they offer excellent beam quality. Furthermore, their efficient heat dissipation along long 
fiber lengths allows high pulse repetition rates and consequently high output powers. High-power 2 μm 
lasers are also useful for material processing of semiconductors and clear polymers, and for interactions 
with water-rich biological tissues and biomaterials. Hence, remote delivery of the high-power 2 μm 
pulses is desirable and is demonstrated using antiresonant hollow-core fibers (HCFs). The antiresonant 
HCF was designed to have a wide transmission band around the 2 μm wavelengths, with a flat and 
slightly anomalous dispersion profile, which makes it suitable for the transmission of ultrashort pulses. 
To compress the 2 μm pulses beyond the transform-limited pulse width, the spectral bandwidth has to 
be broadened, typically through the self-phase modulation (SPM) effect. The new frequency 
components generated are red-shifted near the pulse leading edge and are blue-shifted near the pulse 
trailing edge. As the pulse propagates in a gas-filled antiresonant fiber, the SPM-induced chirp is 
compensated by the antiresonant HCF's anomalous dispersion. The interplay between nonlinearity and 
dispersion effects in a gas-filled HCF can thus be exploited for nonlinear pulse compression. Future work 
involves peak power scaling of the compact ultrafast 2 μm fiber laser system, to overcome the 
nonlinearity and improve the pulse temporal profile to achieve higher peak powers after compression. 
Interesting nonlinear phenomena such as dispersive wave generation and supercontinuum generation in 
gas-filled antiresonant HCF can be explored as well. 

-----
