Improving optical coherence tomography theories and techniques 
for advanced performance and reduced cost 
Abstract 
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has been developed as a high-resolution three-
dimensional imaging technique for clinical diagnosis. This thesis proposes several 
theoretical discoveries and technical improvements to current OCT systems aiming to 
drastically reduce system costs while achieving state-of-the-art performance. 
Polarization-sensitive OCT (PS-OCT) is a functional extension of conventional OCT which 
offers depth-resolved birefringence imaging capability. To resolve local retardation in 
tissue sample, current PS-OCT system illuminates the sample with two multiplexed 
polarization states and detects the backscattered light with two detection channels. We 
observed that the polarization state of light after round-trip propagation through a 
birefringent medium frequently aligns with the employed input polarization state but 
“mirrored” by the horizontal plane of the Poincaré sphere. We explore the predisposition 
for this mirror state and demonstrate how it constrains the evolution of polarization states 
as a function of the round-trip depth into weakly scattering birefringent samples, as 
measured with PS-OCT. The constraint enables measurements of depth-resolved sample 
birefringence with PS-OCT using only a single input polarization state, which offers a 
critical simplification and cost reduction compared to the use of multiple input states. 
Without the employment of the bandwidth-deteriorating polarization states multiplexing 
techniques, the single input state system can achieve even higher axial resolution compared 
to current two input states PS-OCT. We demonstrated the capability of polarization mirror 
state in local birefringence restoration with birefringent phantom imaging, swine retina 
imaging ex vivo and human intravascular imaging in vivo. 
If we take transpose for both sides of the Jones transmission equation of PS-OCT system 
with two input states and two detection channels, the mirror state constraint still holds 
while the input and output states exhibit interchangeability, which implies that depth-
resolved birefringence imaging is possible with only one detection channel, if the sample is 
illuminated with two orthogonal polarization states. Considering the high cost of 
spectrometers and the difficulty of pixel alignment between two detection channels, the 
transposed mirror state constraint helps to further cut the cost and complexity of spectral 
domain PS-OCT system. 
Inspired by the mirror state constraint, we realized that the polarization states of detected 
sample light, after propagating through a stochastically moving reciprocal optical path, 
would not distribute evenly on the Poincaré sphere, but tend to aggregate around the 
mirror state. This can be used to solve a long-standing problem that the detected 
interferograms of fiber-based OCT suffer from the fading effect due to misalignment of the 
light polarization states between the two interference arms which results in sensitivity 
degradation and intensity variation. The existence of mirror states implies the location of 
optimal polarization state of the detected reference light. If the reference light is aligned 
with the polarization mirror state on the Poincaré sphere, a 3.5 dB signal-to-noise ratio 

-----
improvement can be expected. 
The axial resolution, being a critical parameter to the resolving power of OCT system, is 
determined by the light spectral shape and bandwidth. The pursuit of higher axial 
resolution leads to exponentially increasing system cost, and sometimes is even impossible 
because of the unavoidable gaps in the wavelength range of illumination, transmission, and 
detection. We demonstrate that the axial resolution deteriorated by gaps in OCT spectra 
can be restored by adopting the gapped amplitude and phase estimation (GAPES) 
algorithm. The algorithm estimates the missing parts between separated spectral bands 
and obtains a tissue axial profile with reduced sidelobe artifacts and significantly improved 
axial resolution over the individual bands. This technique may make it possible to combine 
spectrally separated sources and detectors to improve axial resolution in OCT images, 
hence greatly reduce the cost of ultrahigh-resolution OCT system. 
In conclusion, this thesis proposed several methods to reduce the cost of current OCT 
system with advanced performance in terms of state-of-the-art contrast, sensitivity and 
resolution, which has been demonstrated with phantom imaging and biological tissue 
imaging both ex vivo and in vivo. 
 
Publication 
Journal: 
1. Nanshuo Wang, Xinyu Liu, Qiaozhou Xiong, Jun Xie, Shi Chen, and Linbo Liu, 
"Polarization management to mitigate misalignment-induced fringe fading in fiber-
based optical coherence tomography", Opt. Lett. 42, 2996-2999 (2017). 
2. Si Chen†, Xinyu Liu†, Nanshuo Wang, Xianghong Wang, Qiaozhou Xiong, En Bo, 
Xiaojun Yu, Shufen Chen, and Linbo Liu, "Visualizing Micro-anatomical Structures of 
the Posterior Cornea with Micro-optical Coherence Tomography", Sci. Rep. 7:10752 
(2017). 
3. Jinhan Li, Yuemei Luo, Xianghong Wang, Nanshuo Wang, En Bo, Si Chen, Shufen 
Chen, Shi Chen, Meng-Tsan Tsai, and Linbo Liu (2018). “Extending the depth of focus 
of fiber-optic optical coherence tomography using a chromatic dual-focus design”, 
Applied Optics, 57(21), 6040-6046. 
4. Yuemei Luo, Dongyao Cui, Xiaojun Yu, En Bo, Xianghong Wang, Nanshuo Wang, 
Cilwyn Shalitha Braganza, Shufen Chen, Xinyu Liu, Qiaozhou Xiong, Si Chen, Shi 
Chen^, and Linbo Liu, "Endomicroscopic optical coherence tomography for cellular 
resolution imaging of gastrointestinal tracts", Journal of Biophotonics, 11(4), 
p.e201700141(2018). 
5. En Bo, Yuemei Luo, Si Chen, Xinyu Liu, Nanshuo Wang, Xin Ge, Xianghong Wang, 
Shufen Chen, Shi Chen, Jinhan Li, and Linbo Liu, "Depth of focus extension in optical 
coherence tomography via multiple aperture synthesis", Optica 4(7), 701-706 (2017). 
6. Xianghong Wang, Xiaojun Yu, Xinyu Liu, Si Chen, Shufen Chen, Nanshuo Wang, and 

-----
Linbo Liu, "A two-step iteration mechanism for speckle reduction in optical coherence 
tomography", Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, Accepted. 
Conference: 
1. Nanshuo Wang, Xinyu Liu, Qiaozhou Xiong, Linbo Liu, “Polarization management to 
mitigate misalignment induced fringe fading in fiber-based optical coherence 
tomography”, SPIE BiOS 2018, San Francisco, CA, USA. 2018, Oral. 
2. Nanshuo Wang, Linbo Liu, et. al, “Optical coherence tomography with gapped 
spectrum”, SPIE BiOS 2016, San Francisco, CA, USA, Poster. 
3. Nanshuo Wang, Xinyu Liu, Qiaozhou Xiong, Linbo Liu, “Local Retardance 
Determination Using Single Input Polarization Sensitive Optical Coherence 
Tomography”, CLEO-PR, OECC and PGC, 2017, Singapore, Poster. 
4. Nanshuo Wang, Xinyu Liu, Xiaojun Yu, Si Chen, Shi Chen, Linbo Liu, “Optical 
Coherence Tomography with Gapped Spectrum”, CLEO-PR, OECC and PGC, 2017, 
Singapore, Poster. 
5. Nanshuo Wang, Linbo Liu, et al, “Adaptive filter technique to restore images of SDOCT 
with high resolution”, Photonics Global Conference 2015, Singapore, Oral. 
Patent and technical disclosure: 
1. Xinyu Liu, Nanshuo Wang, Qiaozhou Xiong, Linbo Liu, Martin Villiger, Brett Bouma, 
Method And Apparatus For Performing Depth Resolved Tissue Local Birefringence 
Properties Measurement Using Single Shot Polarization Sensitive Optical Coherence 
Tomography, US provisional application 62/615. 473 filed on 10 Jan 2018 
2. Linbo Liu, Atsushi Tanaka, Nanshuo Wang, Color Optical Coherence Tomography, 
Reference number: TD/275/16. 
 

-----
