Abstract 
Frequency response of critical electrical system is an important measurement to visualize the 
characteristic of electrical system for condition monitoring purpose. An off-line frequency 
response analysis method is commonly adopted as a diagnostic technique for transformer’s 
winding deformation and displacement detection. Defects of a transformer can be detected by 
comparing the impedance frequency response of each phase of the winding of the 
transformer-under-monitored with respect to the measured impedance frequency response of 
the same winding of the same transformer during the factory test. Due to off-line nature of 
frequency response analysis, it does not allow real-time condition monitoring of a 
transformer under its powered up operating condition. Several methods have been proposed 
for on-line frequency response analysis but the additional circuitries for injecting and 
receiving signals require some forms of electrical contacts to the high-voltage transformer, 
which can pose safety hazards to personnel who installs the instrument on-site. Also, 
additional circuitry to establish the electrical contact has an effect on the frequency response 
of the transformer, which can affect the diagnosis accuracy. In this thesis, an on-line 
frequency response extraction technique which is based on fully two-probe inductive 
coupling approach is introduced and explored. As opposed to capacitive coupling method, no 
direct electrical contact with the transformer to be monitored is needed and it eliminates the 
safety hazards concern. Also, the implementation is relatively easy and does not need to cut-
off the power supply to the transformer. Proposed method is demonstrated experimentally for 
on-line condition monitoring of a transformer and an induction motor for early detection of 
winding defects. 
 

-----
 
Publication List 
Journal Papers 
1. Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, See Kye Yak and Li Kangrong, “On-line impedance 
monitoring of transformer based on inductive coupling approach”, IEEE Trans. 
Dielectr. 
Electr. 
Insul., 
vol. 
24, 
no. 
2, 
pp. 
1273–1279, 
2017, 
DOI: 
10.1109/TDEI.2017.006111. 
2. Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, See Kye Yak and Li Kangrong, “Inductively coupled 
on-line impedance measurement for condition monitoring of electrical equipment”, 
IET Science, Measurement & Technology, 2017 (accepted with major revision). 
3. Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, See Kye Yak, Manish Prajapati, Fei Fan, Kangrong 
Li, Nishshanka Bandara Narampanawe and Chua Eng Kee, “Non-Intrusive 
Inductively Coupled Method for Winding Defects Detection of 3-Phase Induction 
Motor”, IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., 2017 (under review). 
4. Li Kangrong, See Kye Yak, and Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, “Impact analysis of 
conducted emission measurement without LISN”, IEEE Trans. Electromagn. 
Compat., vol. 58, no. 3, pp. 776–783, 2016, DOI: 10.1109/TEMC.2016.2533539. 
Conference Papers 
5. Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka and See Kye Yak, “Early detection of induction 
motor’s defects using an inductively coupled impedance extraction method”, IEEE 
International Electric Machines and Drives Conference (IEMDC) USA, 2017, pp. 1-6, 
DOI: 10.1109/IEMDC.2017.8002000. 

-----
6. See Kye Yak and Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, “Early detection of inter-turn stator 
winding short of an induction motor using an online frequency response method”, in 
First World Congress on Condition Monitoring (WCCM) UK, 2017 (presented). 
7. Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, See Kye Yak, Manish Prajapati, Kangrong Li, 
Nishshanka Bandara Narampanawe and Fei Fan “Inductive Coupling Method for On-
line Frequency Response Analysis (FRA) for Transformer Winding Diagnostic”, 
IEEE premier international technical conference of IEEE Region 10 (TENCON) 
Malaysia, 2017 (presented). 
8. Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, See Kye Yak, Manish Prajapati, Kangrong Li and 
Nishshanka Bandara Narampanawe “Influence of Temperature on Transformer's 
Winding Defect Analysis Using Inductive Probes”, Progress in Electromagnetics 
Research Symposium   (PIERS) Singapore, 2017 (accepted). 
9. Nishshanka Bandara Narampanawe, See Kye Yak, Sooriya Bandara Rathnayaka, 
Jie Zhang, Kangrong Li, Eng Kee Chua and Wei Peng Goh “An Empirical 
Characterization of a Flexible Current Probe for In-Circuit Impedance Measurement”, 
Progress in Electromagnetics Research Symposium (PIERS) Singapore, 2017 
(accepted). 
 

-----
