Ph.D. Thesis Title  
High Precision Biomedical Sensor Readout Circuits Design for Wearable Health Monitoring 
System  
Abstract  
With the increasing size of aging population, there has been a rising need to monitor the vital 
physical parameters of individuals in their daily life. Conventional sensing devices for health 
monitoring are usually bulky, expensive, and power-hungry, making it cumbersome for daily 
use. A miniaturized wearable biomedical signal monitoring system can certainly be a game 
changing technology to enable remote monitoring and diagnosis for personalized home 
healthcare.  
Challenges such as the elevated compatibility of readout circuit with different types of 
sensors, the low power consumption requirement, high output resolution, and high output 
stability against environment changes are all popular research topics. In this project, the RC 
relaxation oscillator is explored as an alternative time domain frontend sensor readout circuit. 
Three designs have been proposed and fabricated. All designs are compatible with both the 
capacitive and resistive sensors. The first design achieves high energy efficiency and low 
phase noise, while the second realizes high output stability against environment changes. The 
third design combines verified ideas from the previous two, attaining a frontend with all 
advantages of the previous two designs. Meanwhile, the readout circuit for neuro signal is 
also researched in this project. The challenge comes from the large noises called artifacts, 
which are superposed with the neuro signal. The large artifacts cause the frontend to saturate 
easily, resulting in fail data conversion. A VCO-based Deep Sub Micron (DSM) readout 
circuit is proposed and fabricated in CMOS 40-nm process. It can operate under large input 
range of up to 100-mVpp with high output resolution.  
Despite of the work done, challenges lying ahead are still exciting. These challenges can be 
viewed in two ways, the integration of my existing frontends into systems, and the creation 
for even better readout circuits. Plans to deal with them are constantly being generated and 
more contributions to the subject matter will certainly be made in the near future.  
 

-----
 
 
 
 
 
List of Scientific Publications 
 
1. W. Zhou, W. L. Goh, and Y. Gao, “A 1.6 MHz Swing-Boosted Relaxation Oscillator with 
±0.15%/V 23.4 ppm/°C Frequency Inaccuracy using Voltage-to-Delay Feedback,” 2019 
IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), Accepted, to be 
presented in IEEE ISCAS 2019. 
2. W. Zhou, W. L. Goh, and Y. Gao, “Biomedical Temperature Sensor System with 
Relaxation-Oscillator-based Sensor Interface for High Precision Sensing,” 3rd Electron 
Devices Technology and Manufacturing (EDTM) Conference 2019, Accepted, to be 
published in IEEE EDTM 2019 proceedings. 
3. W. Zhou, W. L. Goh, J. H. Cheong and Y. Gao, "A 16.6 µW 3.12 MHz RC Relaxation 
Oscillator with 160.3 dBc/Hz FOM," 2018 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and 
Systems (ISCAS), Florence, Italy, 2018, pp. 1-5. 
4. W. Zhou, W. L. Goh, and Y. Gao, “A 3-MHz 17.3-μW 0.015% Period Jitter Relaxation 
Oscillator with Energy Efficient Swing Boosting,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and 
Systems II: Express Briefs (TCAS-II), Submitted, under review. 
5. W. Zhou, W. L. Goh, and Y. Gao, “A 100-mVpp Input Range 10-kHz BW VCO-based 
DSM Neuro-Recording Interface in 40-nm CMOS,” 2019 32nd IEEE International System-
on-Chip Conference (SOCC), Submitted, decision pending. 
6. W. Zhou, W. L. Goh, and Y. Gao, “A 1.6 MHz Swing Boosted Relaxation Oscillator with 
Voltage-to-Delay Feedback,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular 
Papers (TCAS-I), To be submitted by Aug 2019. 
7. W. Zhou, Y, Chen, W. L. Goh, and Y. Gao, “A delta-sigma modulator for high dynamic 
range biomedical sensor interfaces with current re-use Gm-CCO integrator and differential 
phase quantizer,” to be submitted as a journal paper. 

-----
