UAV Swarming with Collision Avoidance and Communication Constraints 
Abstract 
Collision avoidance is critical for the safe and reliable operation of swarms of UAVs (Unmanned 
Aerial Vehicles). Numerous works have already been reported in literature. Most of these methods 
can be grouped into three categories: repulsion, partition-based, and trajectory replanning.  In this 
thesis we seek to further develop some of these existing methods with consideration for special 
scenarios such as intruder UAV interception and dense UAV traffic coordination, which is a 
physical constraint often omitted in the design of swarm algorithms. Collision avoidance can be 
simple to achieve. The challenge is in ensuring that the swarm scenario objectives are not 
compromised. 
The intruder interception problem using UAVs is an interesting problem on its own but also poses 
a challenge for collision avoidance when multiple agents and intruders are considered. The 
accessibility of UAV technology motivates us to design a non-destructive method for stopping 
UAVs that intrude into restricted areas by using our own UAVs to intercept and capture them. For 
interception, we propose a proportional navigation guidance law, on a double integrator model, for 
a quadrotor UAV with velocity feedback that globally guarantees interception with non-zero 
hitting velocity within finite time. Our novel solution to the collision avoidance problem specific 
to the guidance law is to apply repulsion to the line-of-sight vectors between pairs of agents and 
intruders. We demonstrate our method’s effectiveness with both simulations and a semi-physical 
experiment.  
The experiment results motivate us to consider communication constraints for the subsequent 
work. Repulsion-based avoidance is unsuitable where other agents’ states are obtained via limited 
communication. We propose instead a significantly modified version of the partition-based 
velocity obstacle method combined with an event-triggered communication protocol. To limit the 
scope, we consider the two-dimensional single integrator model and the scenario where agents are 
tasked with moving to fixed target positions while avoiding collision. Agents are assumed to be 
connected by a mobile ad hoc network allowing them to communicate with any other agent in the 
swarm. However, communication for each agent is limited to only one other agent at a time. The 
protocol determines for each agent when to communicate and to whom and reduces the rate of 
communication. The method’s effectiveness is shown with simulations. 

-----
We further extend the work to overcome its limitation on agent numbers and spatial configuration 
by designing a hybrid collision avoidance method combining the spatial partition-based Voronoi 
Cell and Velocity Obstacle methods. In addition, to overcome deadlocks and livelocks, we 
introduce a priority system for distributed coordination by having agent pairs make mutual 
decisions based on each agent's conditional priority. A similar event trigger-based communication 
protocol is presented. Our method’s effectiveness is demonstrated in multiple simulations 
involving up to 100 agents. 
Finally, to apply the single integrator collision avoidance methods to the constrained double 
integrator system, we develop a trajectory buffering method using the input partition-based Barrier 
Certificate collision avoidance method. We feed a virtual single-integrator agent to the previous 
hybrid collision avoidance method and use the provided input and position as nominal states to be 
tracked by the actual UAV. Its relative position then determines the virtual agent’s progress along 
the nominal input direction. The barrier certificate method is used to ensure that the agent never 
exceeds a preset distance from the nominal position. 
The methods we present in this work are aimed at swarms of quadcopter UAVs and are primarily 
validated by simulations. Assumptions on the dynamics and communication system are based on 
literature and current technology. The methods are not necessarily limited to the scenarios 
discussed and recommendations for future work are discussed. 
 
 

-----
Publication list  
Presented in thesis. Accepted subject to minor revisions 
[1] 
A. H. Zaini and L. Xie, "Distributed Drone Traffic Coordination using Triggered 
Communication," Unmanned Systems. 
 
Publications presented in thesis 
[2] 
A. H. Zaini and L. Xie, "A Hybrid Collision Avoidance Algorithm for Multi-Agent Traffic 
Coordination Under Limited Communication," in 2018 15th International Conference on 
Control, Automation, Robotics and Vision (ICARCV), 2018, pp. 1879-1884. 
[3] 
A. H. Zaini and L. Xie, "Triggered Communication for Reciprocal Collision Avoidance in 
Multi-agent Navigation," in 2018 14th IEEE International Conference on Control and 
Automation (ICCA), 2018: IEEE. 
[4] 
B. Zhu, A. H. B. Zaini, and L. Xie, "Distributed guidance for interception by using multiple 
rotary-wing unmanned aerial vehicles," IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 
64, no. 7, pp. 5648-5656, 2017. 
[5] 
B. Zhu, A. H. B. Zaini, L. Xie, and G. Bi, "Distributed guidance for interception by using 
multiple rotary-wing unmanned aerial vehicles," in 2016 IEEE International Conference 
on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics (AIM), 2016, pp. 1034-1039. 
[6] 
B. Zhu, J. Xu, A. H. B. Zaini, and L. Xie, "A three-dimensional integrated guidance law 
for rotary UAV interception," in 2016 12th IEEE International Conference on Control and 
Automation (ICCA), 2016, pp. 726-731: IEEE. 
 
Other UAV related works 
[7] 
T.-M. Nguyen, A. H. Zaini, C. Wang, K. Guo, and L. Xie, "Robust Target-relative 
Localization with Ultra-Wideband Ranging and Communication," in 2018 IEEE 
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2018, pp. 2312-2319: 
IEEE. 

-----
[8] 
T. Minh Nguyen, A. Hanif Zaini, K. Guo, and L. Xie, "An Ultra-Wideband-based Multi-
UAV Localization System in GPS-denied Environments," presented at the International 
Micro Air Vehicle Conference and Competition 2016, Bejing, China, 2016.  
[9] 
K. Guo et al., "Ultra-wideband-based localization for quadcopter navigation," Unmanned 
Systems, vol. 4, no. 01, pp. 23-34, 2016.  
 
 
 

-----
