Fault Tolerance and Protective Schemes for DC Distribution Network 
Abstract 
The integration of distributed generation such as renewable energy at the distribution is considered 
as the better option to cope with the rising demand of electrical energy. The storage system is also 
introduced to act as an additional power buffer to the power system due to the intermittent supply 
of energy from the distributed generation. With the addition of these 2 DC energy systems, the DC 
distribution system can achieve a better system efficiency than the AC system. This is due to the 
reduction in power conversion stages such as the power factor correction and a rectifier circuit. Of the 
advantages, the fault protection is the major obstacle for the DC system to move forward. Hence, a 
research topic is brought out with the major aim is to develop an effective fault tolerance solution to 
increase the resiliency of the DC distribution system. A complete fault tolerance and protection 
process with the sequence is:1) fault detection, 2) fault isolation, 3) fault identification, 4) fault 
recovery. 
 
In the DC system, a fast tripping speed of the circuit breaker can reduce the consequences of 
high fault current sourcing toward the fault point. A T-source circuit breaker is used as the device for 
the fault detection and isolation in the DC system. The T-source circuit breaker is a kind of impedance-
network based circuit breakers which provide a high-speed breaking capability and no sensor is 
required. It also has the benefit of preserves a common ground, zero reflected source current, and 
provide a low-pass filter behaviour. The redesign of T-source circuit breaker based on fast tripping 
speed and low output surge current are presented. A T-source circuit breaker model is derived using 
the transformer low and mid-frequency modelling. An optimal component sizing design of the T-
source circuit breaker is done based on the proposed design flow associated with the desired circuit 
breaker current rating, the wire current rating, and the SCR device minimum turn-off time. A manual 
tripping circuit modification for the protection of SCR device in the T-source circuit breaker is also 
presented. The component of the modification circuit is selected based on the optimal value between 
the capacitor charging speed and the minimum value of the instantaneous capacitor charging power.  
 
A high accuracy fault identification solution can ease the task for inspection, maintenance, 
and the repair work. High accuracy can also speed up the restoration service and possesses the merit 
of less maintenance cost. The probe power unit injection method is chosen as the solution for fault 
location identification. It has a benefit of single end injection which does not require multipoint 
measurement, no high data acquisition needed, and can be used as the fault point tracking in the 
offline whereby the fault current from source has interrupted completely. The logarithm decrement 
technique is introduced to obtain the damping constant of the damping injection current. The 
logarithm decrement technique has the advantages of high accuracy, less data reading needed, and 
fast processing speed. The component selection of the probe power unit with the inductor and 
capacitor pair value is based on a low damping ratio and high Q-factor bandwidth. A modification 
probe power unit circuit associated with the proposed multipath fault identification flow can 
determine the exact fault segment line. This fault identification solution provides an information for 
the fault segment isolation for a complex network such as a meshed network. 
A fault recovery is a final step for the fault protection process which recovery the non-faulty system 
back to normal operation. Instead of the modular multilevel converter as the only type power 
converter in the DC network, a low voltage microgrid has various power converters for different 

-----
facilities. The common facilities in the microgrid include grid interfacing system, storage system, and 
photovoltaic system as the distributed generation system. Each converter functions differently and 
has a different consequence over the system reconfiguration. The minimum transient of the 
reconfiguration step is chosen. The reconfiguration step is the order of action between the activation 
of the power converter and the reclose of DC circuit breaker. The sequence of reconnecting each 
facility back to the DC network is demonstrated. The reconnection is presented with a stable voltage 
and power equilibrium.  
As above mentioned, the main reason for introducing fault tolerance and protection scheme into the 
DC system can increase overall system reliability. The scheme can prevent a harmful high current 
triggered by a fault which can damage the non-fault device or facilities attached in the DC system.  
 

-----
