 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Motivated by the important role of electrical energy in the quality 
of life in cities, the electric power flow management, scheduling and 
optimization is a critical task especially in large scale power systems. 
The power flow equations as the heart of power system operation 
translate the power injections and voltages steady-state relationship. 
The nonlinearity of the power flow equations makes the optimal 
power flow (OPF) problem a nonconvex NP-hard optimization 
problem any may have multiple optima. Complexity of the OPF 
problem increases significantly as the size of power system increases, 
so obtaining an optimal solution for OPF problem within a reasonable 
time is one of the main challenge in optimization of power system 
research area. 
Therefore, a variety of deterministic and non-deterministic 
techniques have been applied to OPF problem over the last 50 years 
of research on power networks. Although the mature deterministic 
algorithms are usually able to quickly find a solution but they do not 
guarantee global optimality of the obtained solution and they may get 
trapped in any local optima and no additional information is provided 
regarding the solution. Certifiably obtaining the global solution is 
important for certain applications of OPF problems. 
In this thesis, first a metaheuristic optimization approach, fully 
informed water cycle algorithm (FIWCA), is proposed with the idea 
of exchanging global and local information among the individuals in 
the populations with the goal of achieving a reasonable solution 

-----
within smaller number of iterations and also avoid trapping in any 
local optima. 
Many global optimization techniques, such as semidefinite 
programming (SDP), compute an optimality gap that compares the 
achievable objective value corresponding to the feasible point from a 
local solution algorithm with the objective value bound from a convex 
relaxation technique. Rather than the traditional practice of 
completely separating the local solution and convex relaxation 
computations. This thesis next proposes a method that exploits 
information from a local solution to speed the computation of an 
objective value bound using a semidefinite programming (SDP) 
relaxation. The improvement in computational tractability comes with 
the trade-off of reduced tightness for the resulting objective value 
bound. 
Recent development in power industry leads to a more complicated 
optimization problem to solve. Conventional way of solving static 
OPF problem is unsuitable for power networks, especially at the 
distribution level with the renewable energy sources (RES), energy 
storage systems (ESS) and flexible loads (FL), due to the time-
coupled and stochastic dynamics. On the other hand, convex 
relaxation approaches are not suitable for distribution grids due to 
their high line resistance. This thesis next proposes a computationally 
efficient approach for solving receding horizon control (RHC) based 
multi-objective Alternating Current OPF problem in energy grids 
having intermittent renewable energy generation, storage devices and 
flexible loads. The method decomposes the solution into two stages. 
A Direct Current OPF (DCOPF) problem is solved using a RHC 
approach at the first stage by embedding forecasts on renewable 
generation and demand. A single-period ACOPF to optimize both 
line-losses and operating cost is solved at the second stage with the 
storage and flexible loads fixed at the optimal values computed in the 
first stage. In addition, hot-start is provided to the second stage 
optimization problem using the generation schedule computed at the 
first stage. 

-----
 
 
 
List of Publications 
 
 Alireza Barzegar, Daniel K. Molzahn, Rong Su, , “A Method 
for Quickly Bounding the Optimal Objective Value of an OPF 
Problem using a Semidefinite Relaxation and a Local Solution”, 
IEEE Transaction on Power Systems, (Manuscript under 
review). 
 Alireza Barzegar, Ali Sadollah, Rong Su, Seshadhri Srinivasan, 
“Fully Informed Water Cycle Algorithm for Solving Optimal 
Power Flow Problem in Energy Grids”, Journal of Experimental 
and Theoretical Artificial Intelligence, (The revised manuscript 
has been submitted). 
 Alireza Barzegar, Ali Sadollah, Leila Rajabpour, and Rong Su, 
“Optimal power flow solution using water cycle algorithm,” 
14th International Conference on Control, Automation, 
Robotics and Vision (ICARCV), IEEE, pp. 1-4, 2016. 
 Alireza Barzegar, Rong Su, Changyun Wen, Leila Rajabpour, 
Yicheng Zhang, Amit Gupta, Chandana Gajanayake, and Meng 
Yeong Lee, “Intelligent power allocation and load management 
of more electric aircraft,” in Power Electronics and Drive 
Systems (PEDS), 2015 IEEE 11th International Conference on 
Power Electronics and Drive Systems (PEDS), IEEE, pp. 533-
538, 2015. 
 

-----
