ON-CHIP SPECTROMETER AND FABRICATION 
PROCESSES 
 
Optical spectrometer has been one of the most important instruments for spectrum 
analysis in various applications such as chemical analysis, environment monitoring, remote 
sensing in satellites and so on. It has been made smaller and smaller for more convenience and 
less cost as it is critical to bring the chemical/biological sensing, spectroscopy, and spectral 
imaging into robust, compact and cost-effective devices. A promising way to implement a 
miniaturized spectrometer is on the photonic integrated circuits platform. 
 
The first part of the thesis reports a high-resolution photonic spectrometer using a 
tunable MRR filter. The MRR is thermally tunable by exploiting thermo-optic (TO) effect with 
a high resolution of 0.1 nm and a large tunable range of 19 nm. The model of thermal 
modulation of MRR is theoretically analysed and built. Thermally tunable MRR can be very 
effective to finely shifting the resonance wavelength and only needs one detector for a single 
device. Besides, it has much higher tolerance of fabrication and is more compact compared to 
the approaches using the stationary MRR array. The implementation of tunable MRR array 
with an arrayed waveguide grating (AWG) before the array is designed, fabricated and 
experimentally tested. The AWG functions as a fixed filter to pre-disperse the input spectrum 
while the following tunable MRRs retrieve the corresponding dispersed spectra with high 
resolution (0.015 nm) to realize broad band (27 nm). By adoption of AWG before the tunable 
MRR array, the working band can be broadened while maintaining final resolution of the 
device thanks to the fine tuning ability of MRR. It is practical for especially high resolution 
applications. 
 
The second part focuses on the development of a microring resonator cavity-enhanced 
Fourier-transform spectrometer (CEFTS). In this design, Fourier-transform spectrometer (FTS) 
is realized with a thermally tunable photonic Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI). A MRR 
with high quality factor is cascaded before the Mach-Zehnder interferometer to pre-filter the 
input spectrum while the MZI is exploited to reconstruct the filtered spectra. By finely tuning 
the MRR, the filtered spectrum is shifted for the tunable MZI to reconstruct. Thus, by 
combining the reconstructed filtered spectra, the input spectrum is obtained. The model of 
thermal modulation of MZI is theoretically analysed and built. The proposed spectrometer has 
both high resolution (0.47 nm) and very large bandwidth (150 nm) thanks to the large 
transparency window of MZI and high quality factor of the MRR. The thermal modulation of 
MZI is theoretically analysed and built. Low-loss Si slab waveguide is proposed and developed 
to reduce insertion loss and improve resolution. 
 
The third part presents the fabrication processes using the nano-silicon-photonic (NSP) 
fabrication technology to fabricate the on-chip spectrometers. Using the advanced NSP 
technology, single-mode strip waveguide is achieved with low loss (1-2 dB/cm). And low-loss 
slab waveguides (0.1 dB/m) is also achieved with small footprint. TiN heaters and thermal 
isolation trenches are also developed and fabricated. TiN as resistive layer for heat generation 
has the advantages of high resistivity and compatibility with the NSP fabrication technology. 
Thermal isolation trenches are formed by etching away the top SiO2 cladding and partial Si 
substrate removal (with Si substrate isotropic and anisotropic etching). Si3N4 waveguides are 
also developed and fabricated for potential applications of on-chip spectrometers in the visible 
range. 
 

-----
Publication list 
 
 
Journal papers 
[1] S. Zheng, H. Cai, Y. D. Gu, L. K. Chin, D. L. Kwong, Z. P. Lin, A. Q. Liu, ‘High-resolution 
Microring Resonator Cavity-enhanced Fourier-transfrom Spectrometer on a Silicon Photonic 
Chip’, 2018. (submitted). 
[2] S. Zheng, H. Cai, Y. D. Gu, L. K. Chin, D. L. Kwong, Z. P. Lin, A. Q. Liu, ‘AWG Pre-
dispersed Integrated On-chip Spectrometer with Tunable Microring Resonator Array’, 2018. 
(prepared) 
 
Conference papers 
[1] Zheng, S, Cai, H., Gu, Y., Chin, L. K., & Liu, A. Q. "On-chip Fourier transform 
spectrometer for chemical sensing applications." CLEO: Applications and Technology. Optical 
Society of America, 2016.  
[2] Zheng, S., Cai, H., Gu, Y. D., Chin, L. K., & Liu, A. Q. "High-resolution on-chip 
spectrometer with a tunable micro-ring resonator filter". Lasers and Electro-Optics (CLEO), 
2016 Conference on. IEEE, 2016. 
[3] Zheng, Shaonan, L. K. Chin, and Ai Qun Liu. "On-chip spectrometer enhanced by ring 
resonator cavity: High-resolution and large-bandwidth." CLEO: Science and Innovations. 
Optical Society of America, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PhD candidate: Zheng Shaonan 
 
Supervisor: Liu Ai-Qun 

-----
