Abstract 
In recent years, the wavelength range over which silicon photonics can operate has been 
extended to the mid-infrared (IR) regions (2 to 20 µm). Since many molecules and substances 
have their specific absorption peaks in the mid-IR range, this has provided us with a good 
opportunity to use silicon photonic device as a sensor of trace elements of chemicals in either 
gaseous, liquid or solid phases. In addition, Mid-IR also has many potential applications in free 
space data communication, IR imaging of biological tissues, spectroscopy and many.  
Conventional Germanium (Ge) on Silicon (Si) structure (GOS) has a small core/clad 
refractive index contrast which makes a compact design of sensing devices difficult to realize. 
The silicon on insulator (SOI) structure is a very mature and well established platform. However, 
SiO2 is only transparent up to about 3.8 µm. When Ge on SiO2 structure is used for sensing, 
absorption by the SiO2 layer degrades the performance of such devices. Therefore, the main 
objective of this PhD work is to realize a scalable and CMOS compatible germanium-on-
insulator platform with wide transparency range in mid-IR as well as a large core-clad refractive 
index contrast in order to realize high performance and compact devices at low cost. Silicon 
Nitride (SiNx) is known to be transparent up to 9µm and it can provide a significant refractive 
index contrast with Ge. Therefore, Ge on SiNx (GON) is proposed as a possible structure for 
sensing application in the mid-IR range. However, high-quality single crystal Ge cannot be 
directly deposited on buried SiNx layer as SiNx is an amorphous material. In this thesis, a novel 
method enabled by wafer bonding and layer transfer is used to obtain a high quality Ge on SiNx 
structure. The fabrication processes have been discussed and optimized to obtain a Ge layer with 
low defect level (Threading Dislocation Density<5×106 cm-2) and an inherent tensile strain of 
0.13%. In order to characterize the passive devices fabricated on GON, an optical testing 
platform has been built up exclusively for mid-IR applications ranging from 3.65 to 3.9 µm. 
After the preparation of the new structure wafer and the built-up of testing platform, systematical 
studies consist of modeling by finite difference time domain (FDTD) method, fabrication and 
characterization of the strip waveguides and bending waveguides on GON and on GOS wafer, 
respectively, have been carried out. The simulation results show that the performance gap 
becomes larger as the radius of the bending waveguide decreases. In addition, the experimental 
results demonstrate that the propagation loss of the strip waveguide on GON is 3.35dB/cm at the 

-----
wavelength of 3.8µm and the bend loss of the bending waveguide is 0.14dB/bend at the radius of 
5 µm while the bend loss of the bending waveguide on GOS is 2.54dB/bend at the same radius, 
which proves the proposal that GON platform can provide us with a more compact design of 
devices.  
Mid-IR sensing applications have been explored using this novel GON platform as optical 
chemical detection is a fast growing market in many fields of use. The principle of the Mid-IR 
waveguide sensor is evanescent field sensing which is based on the interaction of the evanescent 
field of a waveguide mode with the surrounding substances and the resulting perturbation of the 
intensity of the mode at the output end of the waveguide. In order to improve the sensitivity, two 
strategies have been applied. One is to increase the length of waveguides thus to increase the 
interaction area with the surrounding chemicals. Another is to extend the evanescent field to 
enhance the absorption. Thus different structures of waveguides have been studied like spiral, 
pedestal, and slot waveguide either to increase the length or to extend the evanescent field. This 
thesis provides deep insights, with experimental results, into the design and optimization of the 
Mid-IR waveguide sensors on germanium-on-silicon nitride as well as germanium-on-silicon 
dioxide platforms. 
 

-----
