Abstract 
The scope of optimization in power system is ample. In general, optimization helps efficient 
and economical operation of the electrical system. It is worthwhile to note that power 
system problems are mostly non-linear, non-convex and often require optimization of two 
or more conflicting objectives. The problem can also be a mix of discrete and continuous 
variables that are needed to be handled by the optimization algorithms. During earlier days, 
classical numerical optimization methods were in use. The classical methods suffered from 
convexity, assumption of continuity and normally employed a gradient based search that 
had the tendency to converge to local optima. Revolution in numerical optimization 
introduced several evolutionary algorithms (EAs) and techniques in last three decades. Most 
of these methods could successfully overcome the problem of premature convergence and 
explore the search space in pursuit of global optima. The primary scope of this research is 
in analyzing performance of state-of-the-art variants of differential evolution (DE) 
algorithm for single objective optimization and evolutionary algorithms for multi-objective 
optimization problems in power system. This thesis presents a review of algorithms success 
history based adaptive differential evolution (SHADE) and its variant the linear population 
size reduction technique of SHADE (L-SHADE) for single objective optimization; 
decomposition based multi-objective evolutionary algorithm (MOEA/D) and summation 
based multi-objective differential evolution (SMODE) for multi-objective optimization. 
Further, operational and security constraints in the electrical network are also very common. 
Penalty function has been the most common and simplest way to deal with the constraints 
in power system problems. In this thesis, we include review of three constraint handling 
(CH) techniques for EAs - superiority of feasible solutions (SF), epsilon (𝜀) constraint 
handling and stochastic ranking (SR) methods. The constraint handling techniques have 
successfully been implemented in conjunction with the EAs and applied to existing and 
newly proposed formulations of constrained optimization problems in power system such 
as optimal power flow (OPF), economic-environmental dispatch and optimal reactive 
power dispatch. In addition, studies on optimal siting of wind turbines in a windfarm and 
distribution network loss minimization are also presented in relevant chapters. The final 
chapter of the thesis concludes with potential future works on optimization in smart grid. 
 

-----
