Fiber-optic catheter for cellular resolution imaging 
Abstract 
This dissertation presents novel developments in micro-optical coherence tomography (μOCT) 
at cellular resolution towards clinical applications.  μOCT has been known as the highest 
resolution OCT technique available to date.  It has an order of magnitude better resolution in 
both axial and lateral direction than standard OCT. The ability for μOCT to obtain non-invasive, 
real-time and three dimensional images of biological tissue at unprecedented resolution has 
brought new opportunities for the advancements of diagnosis of disease pathogenesis and 
novel therapeutics. Several major developments were included in this dissertation to advance 
µOCT technique to higher resolution, better image quality and improved clinical usability. Three 
main topics will be covered:  
1. Dual spectrometer for in vivo imaging of blood flow. 
2. Multifiber μOCT catheter for speckle reduction. 
3. μOCT fiber catheter design and prototype toward clinical endoscopic and intravasuclar 
applications. 
The first part presents a dual spectrometer μOCT system for extended spectrum bandwidth 
detection in order to achieve 1-μm axial resolution. The dual spectrometer utilized two line 
scan cameras of distinct detection wavelength ranges. One was a Si-based sensor responding at 
850 ± 100 nm and the other was an InGaAs-based sensor responding at 1020 ± 80 nm. The two 
spectral ranges were combined into a supercontinuum with extended full-width-half-maximum 
of 345 nm and thus the axial resolution in aqueous environment was 0.93 μm (n = 1.37). In vivo 
experiment showed blood flow in zebrafish larvae tail vein. Not only individual red blood cell 
was observed but also endothelial cells lining along the luminal surface of the blood vessel wall.   
Although at 1 µm resolution μOCT has enough resolving power to identity subcellular of 
biological tissue, some important microstructures was masked behind speckles. With the 
objective to improve imaging quality at high resolution, a multifiber μOCT catheter was 
designed to reduce speckle. Simultaneous multichannel spectrometer was employed to detect 
signals from different channels. The key element in this design was a multi-facet fiber array 
which actively delivered three light beams onto imaging sample and picked up back-scattered 
signal at different angles. Speckle reduction was realized by compounding signals from all 
channels. Rat esophagus imaging using this setup demonstrated an improved signal-to-noise 
ratio, contrast-to-noise ration and equivalent number of looks. The epithelium was better 
delineated from the overlying mucus and lamina propria beneath the basement membrane.  

-----
Lastly but more importantly, this dissertation presents a novel high-resolution endoscopic μOCT 
catheter, pushing the clinical usage of μOCT a big step forward. The μOCT catheter discussed 
here was designed and fabricated to perform longitudinal scanning μOCT imaging in vivo in 
human airways. The 2.4 mm diameter and flexibility allows it to be inserted into the instrument 
channel of commercially standard bronchoscope. Under the real-time video guidance of the 
bronchoscope, the endoscopic fiber-optics catheter could reach the regions of interest up to 
secondary bronchial and conduct high resolution, real time imaging of the functional 
microanatomy of the airway epithelium, including cilia beat frequency and mucociliary 
transport rates, etc. The endoscopic μOCT catheter consists of three major segments: inner 
optics, outer sheath and ergonomics handle. The design, fabrication and test of each segment 
will be discussed in details. Both ex vivo imaging of mouse trachea and in vivo imaging of swine 
trachea and bronchial were performed to show the microanatomy of the airway epithelium.  

-----
