ABSTRACT 
 
Switched-mode dc-dc converters are widely employed in low-power portable applications because of 
their high power-efficiency. The Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) scheme is usually employed in switched-
mode dc-dc converters to generate switching output pulses. The PWM scheme is simple to realize, but it 
results in harmonics at multiples of the switching-frequency. The high harmonic power will undesirably 
translate to high conducted Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) at the input current of the dc-dc converter. 
The prevalent method to mitigate the harmonics is to replace the conventional PWM with the spread-
spectrum modulation schemes. These modulation schemes spread the power of the switching-frequency 
harmonics over the frequency spectrum such that the peak spectral power of the harmonics is reduced as 
compared to that of the PWM. One such a scheme is the Randomized Wrapped-Around Pulse Position 
Modulation scheme (RWAPPM). It features a simple algorithm and is able to highly attenuate the harmonic 
power in its output voltage. Nonetheless, it has a drawback of a higher ripple noise at low-frequencies 
compared to that of the PWM. Therefore, it is desirable that there is a modulation scheme that can collectively 
address both the switching-frequency harmonics and the low-frequency noise for applications in low-
harmonics low-noise switched-mode dc-dc converters. 
We propose a novel low-harmonics low-noise modulation scheme for switched-mode dc-dc converters. 
The proposed scheme is a hybrid of a randomized modulation scheme, namely the RWAPPM, and a noise-
shaper. The RWAPPM mitigates the switching-frequency harmonics in the input current, whereas the noise-
shaper mitigates the low-frequency noise therein. We derive an analytical expression for the input current 
spectrum of the hybrid scheme. We benchmark the hybrid scheme against the conventional Pulse Width 
Modulation scheme (PWM) and the RWAPPM without the noise-shaper. At 0.5 duty cycle, 3.3 V input 
voltage, 100 kHz average switching frequency, and with a 2nd-order noise-shaper, the peak spectral power in 
the input current spectrum of the hybrid scheme is 18.1 dB lower than the PWM. Other randomized and 
spread-spectrum modulation schemes, in general, have undesirably higher input noise current than that of the 
PWM. However, the input noise current of the proposed hybrid scheme, obtained at ~73mA rms (integrated 
over a 200 kHz bandwidth without an input filter), is comparable to that of the PWM, and is lower by ~16 
mA rms compared to that of the RWAPPM without the noise-shaper. We also benchmark the hybrid scheme 
against other well-known randomized and spread-spectrum modulation schemes. We further propose a novel 
pulse generator structure that embodies the hybrid scheme. We realize a dc-dc converter employing the pulse 
generator, and measure the converter to verify the derived expression and the characteristics of the hybrid 
scheme. We also measure the output voltage spectrum, the transient-response, and the operating range of the 
converter. 
 
 

-----
