1 
 
Abstract for thesis initiation 
DC-DC power converters are widely used in many industrial and commercial applications, 
such as computers, electric vehicles and renewable energy generation systems, to name a few. 
In the past decade, due to the various requirements of practical applications, a lot of new dc-dc 
power converters has been proposed. In particular, the transformer-less high-gain dc-dc 
converter is of interest since it is capable of boosting a lower level voltage to a very high level 
without an extreme duty ratio. Besides, these converters have high transfer efficiency and small 
power losses.  However, since the high-gain converters are generally high-order systems, there 
are many state variables that can be used for the feedback purposes. Hence, developing the 
controllers for these converters using the least number of system state variables and the most 
suitable state variables are still open questions which need to be addressed. The objective of 
this thesis is to investigate the control aspect of high-order transformer-less dc-dc boost 
converters. The details are described in the following. 
 
Based on the studies of using the least number of state variables to regulate high-order 
converter systems, some output feedback control laws for various high-order boost-type dc-dc 
converters have been proposed. In these control laws, only the output voltage is required for 
feedback purposes. This feature results in control laws that are very suitable for applications 
where there are power density constraints to accommodate the current sensor.  
 
Firstly, a voltage-mode controller for a dc-dc multilevel boost converter was investigated. 
Unlike some existing voltage-mode controllers for the high-order dc-dc converters, the 
selection of the controller gains mainly relies on a trial and error approach. Since the proposed 
controller uses a new structure, it permits the frequency domain method to be directly used to 
select the appropriate values for the controller gains to ensure system stability. As such, it is 
easier to achieve the desired control performance. 
 
Secondly, the development of a novel output feedback control strategy for the super-lift re-lift 
Luo converter was investigated. The main feature of this controller is that, despite the non-
minimum phase behavior of the converter, the output voltage is regulated directly. Apart from 
this, the structure of the proposed controller is such that there is no risk of saturation in the 
control law due to division by zero, and the “remaining dynamics” for the controlled converter 
has only one equilibrium point which is always stable. The stability analysis of the closed-loop 
controlled system was carried out and the feasibility of the proposed controller was shown. 
Finally, some simulation and experimental results were obtained to validate the theoretical 
conclusions. 
 
Thirdly, an improved voltage-mode controller for the quadratic boost dc-dc converter was 
addressed.  A new structure for the integral action was adopted in this controller. Since the time 
derivative of the adopted integral action is bounded by a user-defined constant, the extreme 
changes in the control signal can be avoided. As such, the proposed controller provides better 
control performance as compared to its counterparts using the traditional integral action.  
 
Besides the work on how to regulate high-order converters using only the output voltage for 
the feedback purposes, the study on how to select the most suitable state variable to control the 
high-order dc-dc boost converters was also addressed in the thesis. For the current-mode 
control techniques, the measurement of the inductor current for feedback purpose is necessary. 
However, for some of the high-gain dc-dc converters, such as the hybrid-type high-order dc-
dc boost converter, they contain two or more inductors. Which inductor current is more suitable 

-----
2 
 
for the design of the controller is an issue that should be answered. To address this issue, a 
comparative study of the adaptive current-mode controllers for the hybrid-type high-order dc-
dc boost converter was carried out. The root-locus method was used to determine the most 
suitable inductor current for the controller design. Some simulation as well as experimental 
results were obtained to verify the theoretical conclusions. 
 
 

-----
