TOA based Localization and Tracking in Indoor Multipath Environment 
This thesis addresses the issue of localization and tracking using time-of-arrival 
(TOA) of both line-of-sight (LOS) and non-line-of-sight (NLOS) paths measured at 
multiple reference devices (RDs) in indoor multipath environment.  
When accurate floor plan map is available, this thesis proposes a novel virtual RD 
(VRD) based indoor TOA localization algorithm utilized both LOS and multipath 
components. By introducing the concept of VRD, multipaths can be considered as 
virtual LOS paths originated from VRDs. Due to unknown measurement-to-path 
correspondence, there are a lot of possible positions satisfy the localization equation, 
which is known as multimodal issue. A grid based data association algorithm is 
proposed to estimate the correct measurement-to-path correspondence. Using the 
estimated data association result, the MD can be localized by two-step weighted least 
square method. Experimental and simulation results show that the proposed VRD 
based localization algorithm significantly outperforms conventional LOS based 
localization algorithms.  
When accurate floor plan map is not available, this thesis proposes a novel 
simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm to jointly estimate the 
MD and map. By modeling the floor plan map as a collection of map features, the 
multi-RD single-cluster probability hypothesis density (MSC-PHD) filter can be 
utilized to jointly estimate the MD and map features. Conventional MSC-PHD filter 
is developed for outdoor radar-based scenarios which only considers backscatter 
paths. To apply it for indoor localization and tracking, LOS path and all higher-order 
reflections which carry information of MD and map features must be formulated. 
This paper proposes a new MSC-PHD filter by incorporating associations among 
map features due to multiple reflections, referred as multi-reflection incorporated 
MSC-PHD (MRMSC-PHD) filter. In addition, to mitigate high computation load of 
the MRMSC-PHD filter, a computational tractable implementation which combines 
a new greedy measurement partitioning scheme and a particle-Gaussian mixture 
filter is presented. Furthermore, a novel mapping error metric is proposed to evaluate 
accuracy of estimated map. Experimental and simulation results show that our 
proposed MRMSC-PHD filter outperforms existing MSC-PHD filters by a 
significant margin in terms of both localization and mapping accuracy. 
 

-----
