Abstract
Classical control theory assumes that the communication links connecting plants,
sensors and controllers are perfect. However, this is not true in practical applica-
tions. The imperfection of communication channels would introduce uncertainties
into feedback control systems, which might impact the stability and performance of
the corresponding control system. Different issues arise when different communica-
tion channels are used in control systems, such as the minimal data rate, tolerable
time delay and minimal signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), etc. This thesis focuses on the
fading phenomenon in wireless communications and study how the fading affects
the stability of the feedback control system.
In the first part of this thesis, we consider the mean square stabilization problem
of discrete-time linear time invariant (LTI) systems controlled over fading chan-
nels. Firstly, we consider the power constrained fading channel, which suffers from
both SNR constraint and time-varying i.i.d. channel fading. We try to character-
ize the channel requirement for the existence of sensing and control policies that
can mean square stabilize the linear system. We firstly show that there is a fun-
damental limitation on the mean square stabilizability obtained via information
theoretic arguments. For scalar systems and two-dimensional systems, necessary
and sufficient conditions for the mean square stabilizability are provided. More-
over, time division multiple access (TDMA) and adaptive TDMA communication
schemes are designed for high-dimensional systems, which are proved to be optimal
under certain situations. Then we proceed to study the mean square stabilization
problem over Gaussian finite-state Markov channels, which suffer from both SNR
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
iv
constraints and the correlated channel fading modeled by a Markov chain. Similarly,
the existence of a fundamental limitation for mean square stabilization is proved.
Sufficient stabilization conditions achieved with TDMA communication schemes are
derived in terms of the stability of a Markov jump linear system (MJLS). Besides,
for the networked control over power constrained Markov lossy channels, one special
kind of Gaussian finite-state Markov channels, we present a necessary and sufficient
condition for the mean square stabilization of two-dimensional systems. Moreover,
improved sufficient stabilization conditions are derived based on an adaptive TDMA
communication scheme for general high-dimensional systems, which achieves larger
stabilization regions than the TDMA communication scheme.
In the second part of this thesis, we study the distributed consensus problem of
linear multi-agent system (MAS) over fading networks with both undirected com-
munication topology and directed communication topology. The agents in the MAS
communicate with each other through fading channels.
We try to derive condi-
tions on the agent dynamics, the fading networks and the communication graphs
to guarantee the existence of a distributed consensus controller. First of all, we
study the consensus problem under an undirected graph setting. Sufficient condi-
tions to guarantee mean square consensus are derived with both identical fading
networks and non-identical fading networks. It is proved that the sufficient condi-
tion is also necessary for scalar systems. The results imply that the consensusability
is closely related to the statistics of the fading networks, the eigenratio of the graph,
and the instability degree of the dynamical system. Then, we consider the mean
square consensus problem over fading networks with directed graphs.
Sufficient
conditions are firstly provided for mean square consensus over identical fading net-
works with directed graphs. For consensus over non-identical fading networks with
directed graphs, compressed in-incidence matrix (CIIM), compressed incidence ma-
trix (CIM) and compressed edge Laplacian (CEL) are proposed to facilitate the
modeling and consensus analysis. It is shown that the mean square consensusability
is solely determined by the edge state dynamics on a directed spanning tree. As a re-
sult, sufficient conditions are provided for mean square consensus over non-identical
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
v
fading networks with directed graphs in terms of fading parameters, the network
topology and the agent dynamics. Moreover, the role of network topology on the
mean square consensusability is discussed.
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
