Gravity waves generated by thunderstorms 
Abstract 
The atmospheric layers and regions are strongly coupled with each other. The dynamic 
processes in the troposphere affect the other layers of the atmosphere by energy transport 
through gravity waves. In order to understand and model these interactions, it is important 
to understand and quantify the role of gravity waves and their generation. In tropical 
region, thunderstorms occur frequently which are known to generate gravity waves with 
wide range of frequencies and scales. Over the years, various studies have highlighted and 
characterised the gravity waves that are generated by the latent heat release in the 
thunderstorms, yet there is no established and quantified relationship between them.  
In this study, model has been developed which quantifies the phase velocity and amplitudes 
of gravity waves generated by the latent heat in thunderstorms in South-East Asian region. 
This is based on identifying the waves with wavelet transform, tracing their sources using 
ray tracing methods, and running cloud-resolving simulations at the identified convective 
source locations. Ten of years of radiosonde data (2007-2016) is analysed for waves at 
Singapore station and the conclusions are derived based on various instances spanning the 
decade.  
In the last few two decades, the importance of latent heat release in the atmosphere is 
realised, yet there are no instruments which can directly measure the atmospheric latent 
heat. Therefore, methods are developed for estimating latent heat for A-Train satellite 
instruments – CloudSat radar and MODIS. In order to monitor and understanding the 
impact of latent heat in the atmosphere, consistent global estimates of latent heat are 
required which can only be obtained efficiently using satellites. Previous methods for latent 
heat retrieval using radars are extended for CloudSat W-band radar and using this result, 
MODIS spectral images are trained using neural network. Since MODIS has a wide coverage 
with high resolution, frequently occurring thunderstorms in the tropical region can be 
monitored with one additional variable – latent heat. Finally, using the MODIS latent heat 
maps developed, the study develops models to quantify gravity wave properties using 
similar approach as mentioned before for two regions – South-East Asian region and West 
African tropical region. This time, instead of cloud-resolving simulations, MODIS images 
are used for latent heat. The models are validated with local radiosonde stations.  
The thunderstorms have significant impact in the atmosphere by driving winds and 
effecting circulation. The gravity waves generated by them propagate up to middle 
atmosphere, and wave dissipation and breaking results in large alteration in the energy and 
momentum budgets affecting local atmospheric constituents. This study hopes to bring forth 
renewed understanding of the coupling between latent heat and gravity waves, and 
hopefully improve the current weather forecasting and modelling.  

-----
 
Publications 
Naren Athreyas, K., Gunawan, E. & Tay, B.K., 2018. Source tracing of thunderstorm 
generated inertia-gravity waves observed during the RADAGAST campaign in Niamey, 
Niger. Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physics, 172(January), pp.1–9. Available 
at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jastp.2018.03.003. 
Naren Athreyas, K., Gunawan, E. & Tay, B .K. Estimating latent heat profiles of deep 
convective clouds using CloudSat radar, IEEE Radar Conference, 2018. 

-----
