Agent-Based Modelling of EV Charging for Optimized Charging Station Operation 
Chaudhari Kalpesh Subhash 
G1403252L 
Abstract 
Widespread adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) would significantly increase the overall 
electrical load demand in power distribution networks. Hence, there is a need for 
comprehensive planning of charging infrastructure in order to prevent power failures or 
scenarios where there is a considerable demand-supply mismatch. Accurately predicting the 
realistic charging demand of EVs is an essential part of the infrastructure planning. Charging 
demand of EVs is influenced by several factors such as driver behavior, location of charging 
stations, electricity pricing etc. In order to implement an optimal charging infrastructure, it is 
important to consider all the relevant factors which influence the charging demand of EVs. 
Several studies have modelled and simulated the charging demands of individual and groups 
of EVs. However, in many cases, the models do not consider factors related to the social 
characteristics of EV drivers. Other studies do not emphasize on economic elements. This 
thesis aims at evaluating the effects of the above factors on EV charging demand using a 
simulation model. An agent-based approach using the NetLogo software tool is employed in 
this thesis to closely mimic the human aggregate behavior and its influence on the load 
demand due to charging of EVs. 
EV charging stations where the EV charging takes place will play an important role in the energy 
management of smart cities. Private and commercial EV charging loads would further stress the 
distribution system. Photovoltaic (PV) systems, which can reduce this stress, also show variation 
due to weather conditions. Hence, after the successful modelling of EV charging behavior using 
agent based approach, a hybrid optimization algorithm for energy storage management is 
proposed as an application. This algorithm shifts its mode of operation between the 
deterministic and rule-based approaches depending on the electricity price band allocation. The 
cost degradation model of the energy storage system (ESS) along with the levelized cost of PV 
power is used in the case of PV integrated charging stations with on-site ESS. The algorithm 
comprises of three parts: categorization of real-time electricity price in different price bands, 
real-time calculation of PV power from solar irradiation data and optimization for minimizing 
the operating cost of an EV charging station integrated with PV and ESS. An extensive simulation 
study is carried out with private and commercial EV charging load model obtained from the 
agent based modelling approaches, in the context of Singapore, to check the effectiveness of 
this algorithm. Furthermore, a detailed analysis of the subsidy and incentive to be given by the 
government agencies for a higher penetration of PV systems is also presented. This work would 
aid in planning of adoption of PV integrated EV charging stations with on-site ESS which would 
be expected to take place of  traditional gas stations in future. 

-----
