NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY                                                                                    SINGAPORE 
Abstract 
 
Multi-agent systems have been extensively studied in modern control theory due to its wide 
applications in robotics, transportation networks, smart grid, etc. In this thesis, we investigate the 
multi-agent system from the perspective of robust coordination, distributed optimization and game 
algorithm design, and network controllability. Specifically, in the practical applications of multi-
agent systems, uncertainties and disturbances are always surrounded. Therefore, it is of great 
significance to consider the influence of these uncertain factors when designing distributed control 
algorithms. In addition, optimization and game theory have wide applications in industry. This 
thesis focuses on distributed optimal algorithms design in multi-agent systems. Lastly, 
controllability of networked multi-agent systems is another important issue that helps to organize 
a network such that the control and interactions are more effective and amenable. 
 
In the first part of this thesis, we study robust cooperative control of multi-agent systems. To deal 
with model uncertainties and disturbances in the agent dynamics, we propose a continuous filter-
based control protocol for a class of high-order multi-agent systems. Sufficient conditions are 
given to guarantee asymptotic consensus. An output feedback control algorithm is further 
proposed by using only position information. Then, we consider robust finite-time connectivity-
preserving consensus and formation tracking problems. We propose an integral sliding mode 
based framework to simultaneously achieve disturbance rejection, finite-time convergence, and 
connectivity preservation for double-integrators with bounded disturbances and a virtual leader. 
The result is further extended to the formation tracking case. 
 
In the second part, we study distributed optimization and game algorithm design. First, we 
consider a class of distributed quadratic optimization problem where the optimal solution and the 
objective functions are both assumed to be time-varying. When there is no constraint on the 
decision variables, gradient-based searching methods are proposed to track the unknown optimal 
solution. The tracking errors are proven to be asymptotically stable. We further consider the case 
where there exists a local compact convex constraint set for each agent. By using projected gradient 
methods, we prove that the tracking errors are uniformly ultimately bounded with arbitrarily small 
bound. Next, we consider the distributed Nash equilibrium seeking problem for a nonsmooth 
generalized convex game. Each player has a convex cost function and is subject to multiple shared 
constraints. The objective is to design a Nash equilibrium seeking law such that each player 
minimizes its own cost function in a distributed way. Both class-𝐶2 objective functions and locally 
Lipschitz objective functions are studied.  
 

-----
NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY                                                                                    SINGAPORE 
In the third part, we consider the controllability problem of multi-agent systems. Specifically, we 
study the controllability of a class of antagonistic networks with not only positive weights but 
also negative ones. This kind of network model is common in social network science. Nodes 
connected with a positive edge can be viewed as “friends” and linked with a negative edge can be 
viewed as “enemies”. We present necessary conditions to characterize the controllability and 
analyze the relationship between an antagonistic network and an all-positive network.  
 
 
 
 

-----
