Abstract 
Globally, governments are building smarter, greener and more sustainable buildings with the help 
of technological innovations. Deploying embedded WSN in buildings is one of the promising 
technologies that enables such a vision. However, such sensors face challenges in sourcing long 
term power, and transmission of wireless signals in and out of building materials. One way to 
source power is from the ambient RF signals. To harvest such energy, RF energy harvesting 
antenna is an important component in embedded WSN systems. This antenna can also be 
responsible for wireless communications. In addition, building materials enclosing the embedded 
antenna also affects the transmission of RF power that for harvesting and communications. 
In this thesis, a study on the concepts of metamaterial and electrically small antennas is performed 
to combine both concepts in the design of an electrically small antenna, and a scalable antenna 
array suitable for RF energy harvesting and wireless communications. Another aspect affecting 
RF energy harvesting and wireless communications indoors is also investigated in this thesis. 
Analysis into some commonly used admixtures to compare the effects on the embedded arrays and 
the resulting materials is done. 
Combining concepts from metamaterials and electrically small antenna, an electrically small 
metaresonator is designed. This antenna has a maximum dimension of one-tenth the wavelength 
of WiFi spectrum at channel 13. Using the stubbed design, the resonant frequency can be tuned to 
the required centre frequency at channel 7. The resulting antenna has a S11 of −25 dB, gain of −16 
dB and an efficiency of −9 dB, within expectations of an ESA. 
This electrically small metaresonator is then used as an array element to form into an array using 
DC combiner topology. Due to its geometry and combining the concepts of metamaterials, the 

-----
resulting metaresonator array achieves close cell separation distance of 0.0165 λ. The S11 of this 
array is also able to achieve −25 dB, a gain of −4 dB and an efficiency of −6 dB. Furthermore, an 
analysis of feeding the array at different feed points also demonstrates the flexibility of this array, 
making it suitable for embedded WSN in buildings.  
Next, an investigation into the common building material, cement is done. Comparing admixture 
pigments typically used in the building industry for colouring of mortar and concrete, the results 
indicate that cement paste enhanced with 4% micro-sized particles of iron (III) oxide 1) improves 
the S11 of the embedded array by as much as 20 dB, 2) increases its bandwidth while maintaining 
the overall shape of the S11, and 3) produces a lesser shift in resonant frequency than cement paste 
alone. Further analysis into S21 shows that adding micro-sized iron (III) oxide into cement paste 
improves the RF power transmission into the material compared to cement paste only sample by 
as much as 10 dB.  
Further investigations into the application of plaster is done to develop an understanding of certain 
applications in buildings. The results obtained shows that plaster samples are the same or worse 
than cement paste samples. Furthermore, the findings suggest that embedding the metaresonator 
array in between a layer of plaster (enhanced or not) and mortar is not suitable for wireless 
applications as the S11 is significantly distorted to an unacceptable range. Analysing S21, it is also 
observed that plaster enhanced with iron (III) oxide layered on mortar also does not significantly 
change the RF transmission property of the material. These findings indicate that embedding the 
metaresonator array in plaster or plaster layer on mortar is not suitable for embedded WSN 
applications. 
 

-----
