Abstract 
Solar energy have a huge the potential to cut the world’s reliance on fossil fuels. Multi-junction 
photovoltaic (PV) cell has the potential to reach 50% of energy conversion efficiency. However, the 
efficiency of typical lattice-matched triple-junction (InGaP/Ga(In)As/Ge) PV cell can only reach 41% 
under concentrated suns. This is due to the excess current wasted by the Ge sub-cell. With an 
addition of a 1-eV sub-cell between Ga(In)As and Ge sub-cell, it has been predicted to achieve an 
efficiency of 50% under concentrated suns. In this work, high efficiency PV cells were grown on a 
silicon substrate to increase the conversion efficiency and reduce the PV production cost. 
We have demonstrated a 1-eV GaNAsSb PV cell on Si-Ge/Si substrate using molecular beam epitaxy 
(MBE). The cell exhibited the lowest ever reported Eg/q-VOC value of 0.50 eV. This indicated that the 
1-eV GaNAsSb layer has high crystalline quality with long carrier lifetime. Growth conditions of 
GaNAsSb layer was optimised by varying As/Ga ratio, growth temperature and annealing 
temperature and annealing duration. As/Ga ratio was found to affect the concentration of arsenic 
anti-site defects and nitrogen related defects. On the other hand, growth temperature was found to 
affect nitrogen phase separation or segregation. Annealing at 700°C for 5 mins is capable of 
improving the performance of the PV cell by removing non-radiative defects. However, annealing at 
temperature exceeding optimal temperature of 700°C for more than 5 mins severely deteriorates 
the PV cell performance. 
Previous modelling works assumed an ideal QE for all the sub-cells. However, experimental quantum 
efficiency of 1-eV GaNAsSb was well below ideal condition. Modelling work was carried out to 
optimise the bandgap energies of top two sub-cells using published experimental quantum efficiency 
(QE) of InGaP, GaAs, 1-eV GaNAsSb and Ge.  The bandgap energies of bottom two sub-cells was fixed 
at 1.03 eV and 0.66 eV, which represented GaNAsSb and Ge sub-cell, respectively. The model 
showed that optimised bandgap energy of first and second sub-cells were 2.00 eV and 1.56 eV, 
respectively. These bandgap energies are higher compared to bandgap energies of top two sub-cells 
in typical triple-junction  cells, which are 1.86 eV (InGaP) and 1.42 eV (Ga(In)As), respectively. 

-----
Increase in bandgap energy in top two sub-cells allows more light to be transmitted to the third sub-
cell.  With the optimised bandgap of 2.00/1.56/1.03/0.66 eV in a quadruple junction cell, energy 
conversion efficiency at one sun condition can be up to 38.8%.  Energy conversion efficiency can be 
boosted to 49% under 500 suns condition.  Under this configuration, a short circuit current density 
of 11.8 mA/cm2, open circuit voltage of 3.65 V and a fill factor of 90% can be achieved in a 
photovoltaic cell. 
1.56 eV PV cells were also grown and fabricated using AlGaAs on Si-Ge/Si substrate. Material quality 
of AlGaAs layer was optimised by varying V/III ratio, growth temperature and base thickness to 
obtain maximum performance in PV cell. This growth process is important in showing the potential 
of the 1.56 eV AlGaAs PV cell on Si-Ge/Si substrate and future integration with 1-eV GaNAsSb PV cell 
as well as the 2.0 eV sub-cell (AlGaInP) and Ge sub-cell. The four materials are closely lattice 
matched with GaAs and can be grown directly on the Si-Ge/Si substrate.  

-----
