ABSTRACT 
Nowadays, the power management unit (PMU) plays an essential role in electronic and 
communication devices and their reliability. More challenges for the power management 
industries are proposed from the increasing of low-voltage portable devices and growing 
requirements of complex functionalities. One of the limitations on the overall performance and 
the lifetime of these battery-powered devices is the limited capacity of the finite power source. 
The process of collecting and converting minute amount of unharnessed energy from 
surrounding environment into usable electrical energy is called energy harvesting. There are 
plenty of ambient energy sources ranging from the most common sources such as heat, solar 
energy, and mechanical vibrations to new-developed sources like microwave, bioenergy, etc. 
As energy harvesting raises the possibility of self-powered devices, which are truly 
autonomous, efficient energy harvesting circuit design has become increasingly important and 
has gained immense popularity.  
Scavenging energy from solar is a good solution to address the increase of power consumption 
in electronic devices. Modern circuits and systems require multiple voltage supplies to provide 
different functionalities. For example, 2.2-3V supplies power RF and antenna circuit, while 
analog circuit and digital circuit operate using different voltage supplies ranging from 0.7V to 
1.8V. Using multiple voltage supplies can improve the overall performance while reducing the 
power consumption of the devices.  
In this research, an energy harvesting system is proposed to extract photovoltaic (PV) energy 
and deliver energy to application of Internet of Things (IOT). The main part of the system 
consists of a single-inductor H-bridge configuration DC-DC converter connecting with two 
inputs and two outputs. It regulates a constant 1V output voltage for several applications such 
as sensor and signal transmitters. The surplus energy is stored in a rechargeable battery. The 

-----
battery also serves as a secondary input source. The most critical issue in energy harvesting 
applications is maximum power extracting. In order to maximize power extraction under all 
conditions, a digital-controlled feed-forward maximum power point tracking (MPPT) system 
is implemented. An input approximation method is proposed to quickly predict the change in 
input power and shift the PV system to the maximum power point (MPP). Pulse-width 
modulation (PWM) and pulse-frequency modulation (PFM) are then used to regulate the output 
voltage at the MPP.  
The PV system is designed using 0.18um technologies. The controller is mainly designed using 
digital circuit to enhance stability, reliability, and controllability. The system is able to extract 
energy from a single solar cell and deliver to multiple outputs loads. The proposed system 
achieves above 60% of conversion efficiency with a peak efficiency of 84.1% while driving 
1uA to 1mW load current. 
 

-----
