Thesis Title
Reliability Analysis and Improvement of Multilevel Converters
Thesis
Abstract
Power converter based variable-frequency drive is much more energy efficient than the traditional
fixed-speed motor. It can reduce the drive system operating cost significantly. However, the
reliability of a power converter is a big concern for both manufacturers and end users as high
failure rate will incur additional repairing cost.
In high power drive applications, multilevel
converters which utilize mature power semiconductors are superior to conventional two-level
converters in efficiency and power quality. But the reliability problem of multilevel converters is
even more serious due to a large number of vulnerable power semiconductors used. Therefore,
reliability analysis and improvement of multilevel converters are indispensable for popularization
and application of variable-frequency drive.
Traditionally, there are two branches in reliability modeling: failure rate methods and Physics-
of-Failure methods. The data-driven statistical failure rate methods are widely used in power
system for their simplicity and effectiveness. There is a crucial assumption that the failure rate is
constant during equipment useful lifetime. The assumption is reasonable in power system where
equipment is operating in a relatively stable condition and under good maintenances. However,
due to the harsh environment and variable load in drive systems, the equipment stress change
severely and rapidly. It makes the crucial constant failure assumption questionable.
A load-dependent failure rate method is proposed to model the variable load. In the proposed
method, the failure rate can be represented as an equivalent constant value or a time-varying
function depends on the application. In traditional failure rate methods, the reliability index,
Mean Time to Failure (MTTF), is widely used to give a life expectancy. MTTF is the reciprocal
of the system failure rate in the condition that the system has a constant failure rate. With a
time-varying failure rate, MTTF is almost impossible to calculate in practice. A new reliability
index, MTTF consumption is proposed to describe the state of health of a power converter.
Multilevel converters with modular design have inherent redundancy which gives them fault-
tolerance capability. The network reliability techniques, combinatorics and stochastic process,
are used to model the inherent redundancy in multilevel converters. With the aforementioned
techniques, the complete and systematic load-dependent failure rate method can be applied to
analyze multilevel converter reliability. The Monte Carlo simulation is used to verify the reliability
results of the load-dependent failure rate method.
On the other hand, the Physics-of-Failure methods which model failure mechanisms draw lots
of attention in the power electronics community recently. These methods calculate components
lifetime consumption under a mission profile with pre-established life-stress models. The converter
system lifetime is determined by the weakest component. The Physics-of-Failure methods give a
deterministic lifetime with clear physics-based models. However, multilevel converter redundancy
and system-level reliability are hard to model as there is no component lifetime distribution. The
randomness of failure and probabilistic property of reliability are lost.
A probabilistic Physics-of-Failure method is developed by including uncertainty of component
parameters and life-stress model parameters.
An assumption that parameters follow normal
distributions is used in the proposed method to simulate the manufacturing process. Component
lifetime distribution can be obtained by repetitive Physics-of-Failure analysis or a Monte Carlo
simulation.
The component reliability function can be extracted by probability distribution
fitting.
The multilevel converter redundancy and system-level reliability can be modeled by
well-established statistical techniques.
This thesis provides reliability analysis methods for power converters and especially, multilevel
converters and explores possible measures to improve the reliability and reduce the cost. The
thesis has three parts. Part 1 has two chapters with chapter 1 introducing the multilevel converters
and its reliability problems, and chapter 2 reviewing reliability modeling history and methods.
The second part discusses the two proposed reliability modeling methods with case studies.
Improving reliability in component level by switching loss optimization is also presented in this
part. The last part draws the conclusions and proposes some future works.
Journal
Publications
1. P. Tu, S. Yang, and P. Wang, “Reliability and cost based redundancy design for modular
multilevel converter,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 2018.
1 of 2

-----
2. S. Yin, P. Tu*, P. Wang, K. J. Tseng, C. Qi, X. Hu, M. Zagrodnik, and R. Simanjorang,
“An accurate subcircuit model of sic half-bridge module for switching-loss optimization,”
IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 2017.
3. C. Qi, X. Chen, P. Tu, and P. Wang, “Cell-by-cell-based finite-control-set model predictive
control for a single-phase cascaded h-bridge rectifier,” IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics,
2018.
4. D. Zhou, P. Tu, and Y. Tang, “Multivector model predictive power control of three-phase
rectifiers with reduced power ripples under nonideal grid conditions,” IEEE Transactions
on Industrial Electronics, 2018.
5. C. Qi, C. Xiyou, P. Tu, and P.Wang, “Deadbeat control for a single-phase cascaded h-bridge
rectifier with voltage balancing modulation,” IET Power Electronics, 2017.
6. C. Qi, P. Tu, P. Wang, and M. Zagrodnik, “Predictive current control for multilevel
cascaded h-bridge inverters based on a deadbeat solution,” Journal of Power Electronics,
2017.
7. S. Yin, K. J. Tseng, R. Simanjorang, and P. Tu, “Experimental comparison of high-speed
gate driver design for 1.2-kv/120-a si igbt and sic mosfet modules,” IET Power Electronics,
2017.
8. Q. Xu, X. Hu, P. Wang, J. Xiao, P. Tu, C. Wen, and M. Y. Lee, “A decentralized dynamic
power sharing strategy for hybrid energy storage system in autonomous dc microgrid,”
IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 2017.
9. C. Dong, H. Jia, Q. Xu, J. Xiao, Y. Xu, P. Tu, P. Lin, X. Li, and P. Wang, “Time-
delay stability analysis for hybrid energy storage system with hierarchical control in dc
microgrids,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 2017.
10. C. Qi, P. Tu, P. Wang, and M. A. Zagrodnik, “Random nearest level modulation strategy
of multilevel cascaded h-bridge inverters,” IET Power Electronics, 2016.
Conference
Publications
1. P. Tu, P. Wang, X. Hu, C. Qi, S. Yin, and M. A. Zagrodnik, “Analytical evaluation of igbt
turn-on loss with double pulse testing,” in Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA),
2016
2. P. Tu, S. Yang, P. Wang, Q. Xu, and C. Qi, “Analytical averaged loss model of half-bridge
modular multilevel converters,” in Future Energy Electronics Conference and ECCE Asia
(IFEEC 2017-ECCE Asia), 2017
3. P. Tu, S. Yin, P.Wang, K. Tseng, C. Qi, X. Hu, M. Zagrodnik, and R. Simanjorang, “An
accurate subcircuit model of sic half bridge module for switching loss optimization,” in
Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), 2016
4. Q. Xu, P. Tu*, C. Dong, C. Qi, S. Yang, S. Yao, and P. Wang, “Pof based reliability
prediction for cascaded h-bridge converter in drive application,” in Future Energy Electronics
Conference and ECCE Asia (IFEEC 2017-ECCE Asia), 2017
5. S. Yang, Y. Tang, P. Tu, and P. Wang, “A fault-tolerant operation scheme for a modular
multilevel converter with a distributed control architecture,” in Energy Conversion Congress
and Exposition (ECCE), 2017
6. C. Qi, X. Chen, P. Tu, and P. Wang, “Low-complexity two-voltage-based model predictive
control for a single-phase cascaded h-bridge inverter,” in Future Energy Electronics Conference
and ECCE Asia (IFEEC 2017-ECCE Asia), 2017
7. P. Lin, C. Zhang, P.Wang, X. Li, J. Xiao, P. Tu, and C. F. Hoong, “A global robust output
regulation method for grid-connected inverter with lcl
filter in weak grid condition,” in Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA), 2017
8. C. Qi, P. Tu, D. Shi, P. Wang, M. A. Zagrodnik, and G. Amit, “An efficient fpga-based
implementation of predictive current control algorithms for an indirect matrix converter,”
in Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC-ECCE Asia), 2016,
9. S. Yin, K. Tseng, P. Tu, R. Simanjorang, and A. K. Gupta, “Design considerations
and comparison of high-speed gate drivers for si igbt and sic mosfet modules,” in Energy
Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), 2016
2 of 2

-----
