Abstract
The increasing trend of electrical power demands in megacities, industries and
transportation requires medium- or high-voltage power electronics devices to serve
as the enabling components for high power conversion, due to design flexibility,
better dynamic performance, energy efficiency and environment friendliness. Mul-
tilevel power converters, such as Neutral Point Clamped (NPC) Converters, Cas-
caded H-Bridge (CHB) Converters and Modular Multilevel Converters (MMCs),
are popular commercialized candidates for such high power applications. Among
them, the MMC possesses great performance in terms of functionality, hardware
implementation, configuration complexity, output power quality, efficiency and
reliability, and it shows considerable research potential in the academic world as
well. This thesis aims to investigate the control and operation strategies that
related to the efficiency, nonlinearity, modularity and reliability of MMCs.
At first, the configuration and operation principles of a three phase MMC
is introduced. A comprehensive steady state analysis and the equivalent circuit
model that are applicable to an MMC connected to either a DC or an AC bus are
then presented in this thesis. In addition to better understanding of the MMC
operation, the analysis and modeling of the MMC also suggest the conditions that
ensure the stability operation of the MMC system. According to the aforemen-
tioned analysis and modeling, the control system of the MMC is introduced. The
commonly used cascaded control strategy, including output and inner dynamics
control loops, has been discussed. The existing modulation methods for MMCs
have been summarized, and the phase-shifted pulse width modulation (PS-PWM)
are detailed and adopted in this thesis.
The circulating current harmonics in each phase are expected to be suppressed
in order to improve the performance and reduce the losses of MMCs. The char-
acteristics of the circulating current harmonics are analyzed and it is revealed
that the circulating current are dominated by even order harmonics. An even-
iii

-----
harmonic repetitive control scheme is proposed to eliminate the even harmonics
in the differential current. The proposed repetitive controller has excellent har-
monic elimination, with benefits of less memory occupation, less delay period, dou-
bled low frequency gain, faster convergence rate and dynamic response and wider
bandwidth at specific frequencies. The full design details of the even-harmonic
repetitive control for an MMC system has been presented.
Moreover, the MMC is a multi-input multi-output bilinear system. A non-
linear control strategy is preferred for better control performance. The feedback
linearization based current control for the MMC is proposed in this thesis to solve
the bilinear control problem. The state function model of the MMC is linearized
with the help of the feedback linearization technique. The output and inner differ-
ential current control loops are decoupled as two independent simple integrators.
Classical linear control laws can be easily applied in the two current control loops.
The control performance in steady state and during step changes is improved and
the controller design process is facilitated.
The centralized control system will reduce the modularity of the MMC in
terms of software implementation and is not practical in MMC systems with a
large number of sub-modules. A distributed control strategy for MMCs is pro-
posed in this thesis. The proposed control strategy is able to achieve all control
objectives in conventional control strategies, with significantly reduced data ex-
changing among central and local controllers through a communication network.
The fault diagnosis and fault tolerant control for an MMC with redundant
sub-modules significantly increases the system reliability. A real-time measure-
ment based semiconductor device open-circuit fault diagnosis method has been
proposed. This fault diagnosis is implemented in each local controller in the dis-
tributed control architecture with local information. It is capable of accurately
identifying multiple faults within 3.5ms without false alarm. Based on the per-
formance analysis of an MMC with bypassed faulty sub-modules, a fault tolerant
control is accordingly proposed. The fault tolerant control guarantees the perfor-
mance of the MMC to be the same as in normal operation. The fault tolerant
control can be activated with 5ms after the fault occurrence. The MMC is able
to seamlessly ride through the switching device open-circuit fault.
All the theoretical findings are verified in PLECS simulations. The effective-
ness and practicalities of the control algorithms are confirmed on a scale down
single-phase MMC prototype.
iv

-----
