Active noise control algorithm and
implementation on overcoming the practical
issue
SHI DONGYUAN (G1500076L)
Aug 2018– Aug 2019
1
Abstract
Noise control attracts more and more attention, as the rapid advance of hu-
man’s urbanization. Compared to traditional passive noise control approach,
the active noise control (ANC) technique only utilizes the sensor to acquire
the information of the noise and synthesizes the anti-noise driving the actu-
ator to cancel the noise. Therefore, the ANC technique shows the apparent
advantages of the cost, size, and easy deployment. With these advantages,
ANC is widely used in active control headphone, duct noise control fields
and so on. However, the ANC technique still meets many practical chal-
lenges, such as the output nonlinearity of the secondary path, no place to
settle the error sensor, and the soaring computations as the increasing scale
of the multichannel active noise control (MCANC) system. For effectively
solving these practical issues, the paper reviews several techniques and pro-
poses many innovative algorithms and methods. The distortion coming from
the saturation audio amplifier plays a central role in the output nonlinearity
on the secondary path. The distortion seriously influences the noise reduc-
tion performance and even results in the divergence of the adaptive ANC
algorithm. One of the most effective ways is to constrain the power of the
output signal so that the audio amplifier can work under the linear model and
avoids the saturation. For guaranteeing the ANC system to achieve the opti-
mal noise reduction performance under output constraint, the paper proposes
two-gradient direction FxLMS algorithm￿ The algorithm will automatically
1

-----
change the gradient direction to reduce the power gain of the control filter
when the ANC system exceeds the constraint of the output power. The alter-
native method is to utilize the leaky FxLMS algorithm adaptively restraining
the magnitude of the control filter. With the assistance of the optimal leak
factor suggested in this paper, the leaky FxLMS algorithm can also gain
optimal control under output constraint. The performances of these two al-
gorithms are verified by the numerical simulation and the experiment in the
paper.
In some ANC applications, its impractical to place the error sensor in
the desired location. Hence, the paper revisits the virtual sensing ANC tech-
nique that is capable to project the quiet zoom to the desired position from
the location of the physical microphone. Furthermore, the paper extends the
single channel version sensing ANC to multichannel version sensing ANC
(MVANC). The frequency domain and time domain prove the MVANC can
achieve the same noise reduction performance as the MCANC, which places
the real error sensors in desired positions. The analysis of the sensor-actuator
configuration exhibits the physical limitation of the MVANC. A four-channel
MVANC is implemented in a small noise chamber, and its experimental re-
sults validate these analyses. Selective active noise control (SANC) approach
proposed in the paper obtains a series of filters and stores into a database in
the preliminary stage. When dealing with a specific type of primary noise,
the SANC algorithm will select out a suitable pre-trained filter from the
database based on the frequency-band-match method.
The paper proves
that the selected filter chosen by the frequency-band-match method can ob-
tain a satisfying noise reduction performance. Without the adaptive update
progress, SANC saves a considerable amount of computation and has higher
robustness.
Finally, the paper summaries a series of approaches, which can optimize
the structure of the digital processing algorithm implemented on FPGA. By
using these methods, the paper proposes the systolic FxLMS, which sig-
nificantly increase the sampling rate and throughput rate of the ANC sys-
tem. For realizing a large scale MCANC on FPGA, the paper introduces a
Multiple-parallel-branch with folding structure. This architecture is used to
implement a 24-channel MCANC and successfully balances the computation
resource consummation and the maximum running speed. This 24-channel
MCANC is deployed in an open window whose noise reduction performance
sufficiently validates the effectiveness of the proposed architecture.
2

-----
2
Publication
I have published two journal papers [1, 2], four ICASSP papers [3–6], two
APSIPA papers [7,8], one ICA paper [9], other papers [10–16].
References
[1] Shi, DongYuan, et al. ”Two-gradient direction FXLMS: An adaptive ac-
tive noise control algorithm with output constraint.” Mechanical Systems
and Signal Processing 116 (2019): 651-667.
[2] Shi, Dongyuan, et al. ”Optimal Leak Factor Selection for the Output-
constrained Leaky Filtered-Input Least Mean Square Algorithm.” IEEE
Signal Processing Letters (2019).
[3] Shi, Dong Yuan, and Woon-Seng Gan. ”Comparison of different develop-
ment kits and its suitability in signal processing education.” 2016 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP). IEEE, 2016.
[4] Shi, Dongyuan, et al. ”Multiple parallel branch with folding architec-
ture for multichannel filtered-x least mean square algorithm.” 2017 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP). IEEE, 2017.
[5] Shi, Dong Yuan, Bhan Lam, and Woon-Seng Gan. ”A Novel Selective
Active Noise Control Algorithm to Overcome Practical Implementation
Issue.” 2018 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2018.
[6] Shi, Dongyuan, Bhan Lam, and Woon-seng Gan. ”Analysis of Multichan-
nel Virtual Sensing Active Noise Control to Overcome Spatial Correlation
and Causality Constraints.” ICASSP 2019-2019 IEEE International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE,
2019.
[7] Shi, Dongyuan, Chuang Shi, and Woon-Seng Gan. ”A systolic fxlms
structure for implementation of feedforward active noise control on fpga.”
2016 Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association Annual
Summit and Conference (APSIPA). IEEE, 2016.
3

-----
[8] Shi, Dongyuan, Chuang Shi, and Woon-Seng Gan. ”Effect of the au-
dio amplifier’s distortion on feedforward active noise control.” 2017 Asia-
Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association Annual Summit
and Conference (APSIPA ASC). IEEE, 2017.
[9] Dongyuan Shi, Woon-Seng Gan, Bhan Lam, and Shulin Wen. Practical
consideration and implementation for avoiding Saturation of large am-
plitude Active Noise Control. 23th Intl. Congress on Acoustics, SEPT.
09-13, 2019.
[10] Hasegawa, Rina, Dongyuan Shi, Yoshinobu Kajikawa, and Woon-Seng
Gan. ”Window Active Noise Control System with Virtual Sensing Tech-
nique.” In INTER-NOISE and NOISE-CON Congress and Conference
Proceedings, vol. 258, no. 1, pp. 6004-6012. Institute of Noise Control
Engineering, 2018.
[11] Shi, Chuang, Huiyong Li, Dongyuan Shi, Bhan Lam, and Woon-Seng
Gan. ”Understanding multiple-input multiple-output active noise control
from a perspective of sampling and reconstruction.” In 2017 Asia-Pacific
Signal and Information Processing Association Annual Summit and Con-
ference (APSIPA ASC), pp. 124-129. IEEE, 2017.
[12] Shi, Chuang, Nan Jiang, Huiyong Li, Dongyuan Shi, and Woon-Seng
Gan. ”On algorithms and implementations of a 4-channel active noise
canceling window.” In 2017 International Symposium on Intelligent Signal
Processing and Communication Systems (ISPACS), pp. 217-221. IEEE,
2017.
[13] Shi, Chuang, Tatsuya Murao, Dongyuan Shi, Bhan Lam, and Woon-
Seng Gan. ”Open loop active control of noise through open windows.” In
Proceedings of Meetings on Acoustics 172ASA, vol. 29, no. 1, p. 030007.
ASA, 2016.
[14] Lam, Bhan, Woon Seng Gan, Dongyuan Shi, and Stephen Elliott.
”HYBRID SOURCE ARRANGEMENT FOR ACTIVE CONTROL OF
NOISE THROUGH APERTURES AT OBLIQUE INCI-DENCES: A
PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION.” (2018): 739-746.
[15] He, Jianjun, Bhan Lam, Dongyuan Shi, and Woon Seng Gan. ”Exploit-
ing the Underdetermined System in Multichannel Active Noise Control
for Open Windows.” Applied Sciences 9, no. 3 (2019): 390.
4

-----
[16] Lam, Bhan, Chuang Shi, Dongyuan Shi, and Woon-Seng Gan. ”Active
control of sound through full-sized open windows.” Building and Envi-
ronment 141 (2018): 16-27.
5

-----
