Abstract
This thesis is written based on two main topics: Scene semantic recognition and
road lane marks recognition. The thesis first reviews the studies of general scene
understanding or recognition method using semantic segmentation approaches,
and then focuses on a more specific topic of analyzing road scene images for de-
tecting road lane marks.
Semantic segmentation has been a popular topic in the field of computer vi-
sion research. The main purpose of semantic segmentation is to label pixels of
interest in an image with corresponding categories of the objects.
This thesis
mainly focuses on scene recognition, a branch of semantic segmentation which
takes more contextual information into consideration. This thesis presents an ex-
perimental study in which a multi-task method for scene recognition is proposed.
In this method, edge information is used in enhancing recognition performance.
A network which outputs both edge detection map and pixel-wise segmentation
is designed. The network is based on FCN and the prediction branches of the
two outputs are parallel. Each branch uses multi-scale features concatenation as
the image representations. The method expects that the information from edge
detection could contribute to the ability of extracting image features for pixel-wise
segmentation.
Modern approaches on multiple road lane marks detection are facing several
problems. First, insufficient database make related solutions with machine learn-
ing technique difficult to train a robust model for application; second, current
researches focus on single lane marks detection, which pays less attention to entire
roads’ condition. To solve the problems, a database with proper ground truth of
marks’ label set is constructed and a method is developed for detecting and clas-
sifying road lane marks of entire roads with Extreme Learning Machines (ELM).
The implementation result shows promising performance and further improvement
could be expected.

-----
