Abstract 
Conventional Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) using Radix-22 brought a significant 
improvement in FFT implementation to reduce circuit complexity and computational power. The 
most famous architecture in Radix-22 is Single-path Delay Feedback (SDF) which requires the 
smallest amount of memory however, low throughput due to single data line is its major drawback. 
In the first part of this thesis, a Radix-22 Multiple-path Delay Commutator (MDC) architecture is 
proposed to achieve higher throughput and reduce energy per conversion. In addition, a new input 
scheduling algorithm, parallel-pipelined architecture together with ultra-low power circuit design 
techniques are employed to increase the speed and minimize the total power consumption.  A 
1024-point high speed, ultra-low power Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was fabricated using STM 
65nm technology. The chip consumes 76.8 nJ/FFT with clock frequency of 400 MHz at 0.6V 
supply and it is able to operate up to 600MHz at VDD=1V yielding 1.2 Gsample/s. 
 
Apart from the FFT design, an ultra-low power hand gesture recognition processor is 
designed and implemented in this research. In the past, many hand gesture recognition systems 
have been invented both for research interest and market demand. These systems require a great 
amount of power because of using active devices such as active IR sensor, RF sensor or Ultrasonic 
sensor which are not suitable for low power and portable applications. In our research, passive 
infrared (PIR) sensor is proposed to avoid high power demand. New algorithms for gesture 
recognitions including sweeping, zooming and wake-up gesture detection is also presented and 
verified with real time input from a customized analog front end as well as recorded input from a 
Heiman sensor. To further reduce power consumption, the algorithm is able to put the system into 
standby mode which operates at lower frequencies. Upon sensing a wake up gesture, active mode 

-----
will be triggered to recover full operation. The completed hand gesture recognition SoC which 
includes analog front end to process readings from IR sensor array together with two digital signal 
processors was fabricated in TSMC 65nm. The whole chip occupies an area of 8.1 mm2 in which 
the 16×4 input array DSP takes 580×300 µm and the 16×16 input version uses 580×300 µm. Test 
chips demonstrate successfully gesture detections for 8 sweeping directions, zooming action and 
a wake-up gesture. In active mode, the total power consumption of the SoC is 260 µW and it is 46 
µW in idle mode. The DSP consumes 28.6 µW for detecting 16×4 input and 66.8 µW for 16×16 
input. Power and area specifications of the proposed SoC is suitable for mobile and smart device 
applications. 
 

-----
