ABSTRACT 
Flow cytometry is an indispensable tool for identification, classification and enumeration 
of single cells/particles in biomedical applications like pathology, immunology, gene sequencing, 
chromosome sorting, biodefence and disease diagnosis. Flow cytometers represent a classic 
example of multidisciplinary instrumentation involving integrated optical, mechanical and 
electronic modules in synchronous operation, and are indeed a gold standard for chronic disease 
diagnosis. However, the bulkiness and high cost limit their use in state-of-the-art research 
laboratories and high-end clinical settings by skilled personnel. Recent advances in solid-state 
optics and durable micro-fabrication techniques have inspired scientists and engineers to design 
micro-flow cytometers that are portable, easy-to-operate and cost effective. A conventional flow 
cytometer comprises of a nozzle system that aligns the input sample cells/particles into a focused 
stream of single-cells/particles surrounded by a stream of sheath fluid. Sample focusing by this 
method occurs as a result of differential pressure between the sample and the sheath stream. This 
pressure-driven particle focusing technique is termed as sheath flow-assisted hydrodynamic 
focusing. Most miniature flow cytometers also incorporate the same technique for focusing of 
cells/particles in a microfluidic channel wherein the sample is directed through the main channel 
and the surrounding sheath fluids are directed into the main channel through inlets on either side 
of the main channel. This method narrows down the sample stream width, but it requires additional 
modifications such as changes in the microfluidic channel geometry or active sources, for 
achieving a single-line focused stream of cells in the outlet channel. Thus, multiple inlet and outlet 
ports add complexity to the microfluidic set-up and limits reproducibility. Moreover, the presence 
of sheath fluid results in sample dilution and reduction of the overall throughput of the lab-on-a-
chip flow cytometer. The second hydrodynamic focusing technique used for particle focusing in 
microfluidic channels is based on inertial forces. This sheathless particle focusing technique 
usually employs a single inlet and single outlet microfluidic channel design. Nevertheless, it 
requires hybrid channel geometries to reduce multiple equilibrium positions to a single position in 
three dimensions. Thus, the first objective of the work presented in this thesis is to design a novel 
microfluidic channel that is able to focus randomly distributed cells/particles at the inlet to a single 
equilibrium position at the outlet using the sheathless, inertial forces-based hydrodynamic focusing 
technique.  The proposed microfluidic channel geometry is a uniform square cross-section, single 

-----
inlet and single outlet microchannel, comprising a series of radially increasing semi-arcs 
interleaved by linear sections, which is used to focus randomly fed cells/particles at the inlet to a 
single equilibrium position at the outlet. The entire geometry is symmetric from the midline of the 
microchannel. To our knowledge, this is the first sheathless microfluidic chip with a uniform cross-
section throughout the microchannel length to achieve a stable single position focusing for 
spherical particles/cells with diameters from 10 µm to 30 µm at fast flow rates (up to 700 µl/min). 
Single position focusing for spherical particles/cells that satisfy the condition 0.1875 < a/w < 0.9 
(where, a – diameter of the spherical particle/cell and w – width of the proposed microchannel) for 
10 < Re < 150 is achieved. We present a lab-on-a-chip based miniature flow cytometer that 
incorporates our proposed microfluidic chip integrated with tapered optical fibers for interrogating 
the focused cells/particles. 
Nanaoassays are imperative to extract any morphological or biological information from 
flow cytometers. In the context of disease diagnosis, nanoassays are extensively used for providing 
and enhancing the signals from biomolecules. Drug delivery, disease progression and prognosis is 
studied using nanoassays designed using fluorescent beads, organic dyes, quantum dots, variable 
sized-colored beads, etc. However, these assays cannot be used as simultaneous carrier 
(biomolecules/drug/gene delivery) and signal providers (output/fluorescence signal). Thus, the 
second objective of this work is to develop alternative non-toxic, stable and biocompatible 
nanoassays that can be used for both biomolecule carriers and signals analysis for cancer diagnosis 
and therapy. We have investigated the feasibility of using gold nanorods (AuNRs) and 
biodegradable charged polyester-based vectors (BCPVs) as gene delivery nanovehicles and signal 
providers in pancreatic cancer cells and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cells, respectively. 
Following this, flow cytometer has been used to the measure the performance indicators- gene 
transfection efficiency and cell apoptosis, and evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed 
nanoassay. The excellent gene knockdown performance (over 81%) of the proposed model 
support in vivo trials for RNAi-based cancer theranostics. Post transfection with AuNRs-siRNA 
nanoprobes, the 14-16 µm pancreatic cancer cells can be readily focused in our engineered portable 
flow cytometry set-up, and the transfection efficiency can be determined by measuring the output 
fluorescent signal. The lab-on-a-chip flow cytometer offers distinct advantages when compared 
with the conventional bulky flow cytometer: lower volume of samples is needed, fewer sample 
preparation steps, cartridge-type one-off use chip, easier handling and operation, and low cost.  

-----
