Title: Compact and Fast Machine Learning Accelerator for IoT devices 
Abstract:  
The Internet of things (IoT) is the networked interconnection of every object, which is 
equipped with intelligence and cooperates with other smart objects to improve efficiency 
and economic benefit. A typical IoT system can sense data from real-world, use this 
information to reason the environment and then perform desired actions. The intelligence 
of the systems comes from appropriate actions by reasoning the environmental data, 
which is mainly based on machine learning algorithms. To have a real-time response to 
the dynamic ambient change, a compact and fast machine learning accelerator is 
preferred since uploading to clouds suffers long latency of computation in the back end. 
As such, machine learning algorithms have to be optimized to utilize the computational 
resource limited IoT devices. 
In this thesis, three main works have been investigated for machine learning on IoT 
devices. Firstly, a tensor-train based neural network is proposed for compact machine 
learning. Such neural network can compress the network with fewer parameters and 
potentially speed-up the neural network processing. An alternating least-squares method 
is also used for such neural network training. Secondly, I have proposed incremental 
least-squares algorithm, which can reuse previous results for faster solution. Such least-
squares based algorithm is frequently used during machine training process to accelerate 
training process. Lastly, the optimized machine learning algorithm has been applied to 
many applications such as network intrusion detection system (NIDS), load forecasting 
for energy management and indoor positioning. By optimizing the training algorithm using 
incremental least-squares, fast machine learning process on IoT devices can be achieved, 
which means the system can quickly adapt to the environmental change. In addition, a 
new computing architecture on CMOS FPGA has been developed and verified. A 3D 
CMOS-RRAM based computing architecture has been proposed to demonstrate the 
speed-up of machine learning process and improvement of energy efficiency.    

-----
