Abstract 
The fast development of portable devices, autonomous robot and vehicles have led to growing 
demand in sensors. This in turn leads to a higher demand in performance-aware sensor electronics.  
Among various type of sensors, resistive based sensor is one of the popular choices due to its 
robustness against the environmental effects and flexibility for ease of interface with electronics. 
For portable devices, the sensor electronics will need to address power or noise-energy parameter 
while maintaining its dynamic range as high as possible. Thus, the thesis aims to explore different 
architectural solutions in the context of low noise-energy performance metric as the key design 
agenda. As such, various design approaches are realized. They are (i) current-to-frequency (IF) 
converter (ii) voltage-to-frequency (VF) converter and (iii) switched-capacitor (SC) interface.  
The IF converter is based on a direct-sensing grounded integrator architecture. With only 
one operational amplifier (op-amp) clamping the voltage of sensing bridge output nodes, the change 
in bridge resistance is thus converted into signal current. This current is injected into an integrating 
capacitor. The ramping voltage of integrator is then converted into frequency through the associated 
comparator together with the digital logic. With the direct-sensing grounded integrator, the power 
consumption is reduced and the sensitivity to critical devices pair matching is also lowered. 
Fabricated using UMC 65nm process technology at 1.2V supply, the measurement results of the 
converter have achieved the average sensitivity of 41.5Hz/nA with an average output frequency 
range 2.488MHz. The average frequency uncertainty is 539Hz at the maximum output frequency 
at an average current consumption of 140μA. With low power consumption and low noise features, 
the converter has obtained a SNR-energy figure-of-merit (FOM) of 0.71nJ. Thus, the converter has 
displayed the best figure-of-merit when compared to the recently-reported state-of-the-art 
converters. Due to its high resolution, the proposed quasi-digital sensor interface is useful for 
measurements with precision purpose. 

-----
A VF converter is also proposed. In contrast to the current-to-frequency converter, the VF 
converter converts the floating output voltage of the Wheatstone Bridge. A simple hybrid 
transconductor is used to convert the voltage signal into a charging and discharging current. This It 
is based on a combination of a level-shift flipped voltage follower and a folded shunt-feedback 
source follower. The charging current and the discharging current generated are used to charge and 
discharge an integrating capacitor. The ramping voltage signal on the integrating capacitor is then 
translated to frequency domain through a window comparator and digital logic. Implemented in 
0.18μm CMOS technology at 1V supply, the simulation results have shown that the converter has 
a sensitivity of 1.936Hz/(μΩ/Ω) and a centre frequency of 78.2kHz. With this simple architecture, 
the converter has achieved a SNR-energy FOM of 0.0965nJ, which is at least comparable to the 
aforementioned IF converter. This demonstrates low noise-energy potential feature of the circuit 
architecture. 
Turning to the resistive Wheatstone bridge that consumes potential high power 
consumption, another approach is that of reduction of on-time in the sensing Wheatstone Bridge in 
conjunction with the proposed low-noise low-energy SC interface. This can be achieved through 
sampling the Wheatstone Bridge output signal at a short time interval and holding the signal for 
signal processing. This requires the design of op-amp to operate at high bandwidth mode during 
the sampling phase and low-bandwidth low-power mode during the holding phase, thus reducing 
both its current consumption and noise. To cater for the above mentioned two operation modes, an 
op-amp with adaptive bandwidth and adaptive biasing topology is proposed in this work. 
Implemented with UMC 65nm process technology at 1V supply from the on-chip low dropout 
regulator, the power of the SC interface together with the Wheatstone bridge, consumes only 6.15nJ 
per measurement interval. The measured signal-to-noise ratio of the SC interface attains 55.64 dB 
with a 40 Hz sinusoidal input signal. As a result, it can achieve a 0.19pJ SNR-energy FOM 
normalized with respect to bridge’s resistance variation, which is at least three times better than 

-----
that of the reported state-of-the-art works. Hence, the SC interface is very suitable for low-noise 
low-energy sensing system. 

-----
