Abstract  
With the increasing popularity of pervasive devices such as 
smartphones, Body Sensor Network(BSN), Internet-of-Things devices 
and cloud computing, mobile eHealthcare has become a research trend 
in recent years. Disease detection using big data analytics techniques is a 
popular eHealthcare research focus. However, the disease detection still 
faces many challenges on privacy of users’ sensitive personal 
information, confidentiality of health service provider’s diagnosis 
model, accuracy of the diagnosis result, efficiency of the query result, 
etc. In this thesis, we aim to improve the security and privacy 
performance of the eHealthcare systems, while achieving efficient 
disease detection. 
Firstly, we propose an efficient privacy-preserving pre-clinical guidance 
service scheme (PGuide) to provide on-the-go medical guidance service 
while preserving user privacy to address the above-mentioned privacy 
challenges, improve the accuracy of disease risk in hospitals. Using the 
PGuide scheme, users can personally conduct privacy-preserving pre-
clinical diagnosis based on their health profiles and obtain 
recommendation from trusted sources (e.g. hospitals and medical service 
providers) based on the diagnosis. In addition, the information 
transmitted to the hospitals and other medical service providers to 
calculate the disease risk use a disease prediction model in a privacy-
preserving way.  
Secondly, we propose an efficient privacy-preserving health query 
scheme over outsourced cloud (HeOC). In this scheme, the user filters 
out the suspicious disease with the sensor collected data first. Then 
through a variant of oblivious pseudorandom function protocol protocol 
(OPRF), the user can query the accurate disease level from the filtered 
result using sensor anomaly detection technique. To reduce the query 
latency, we propose a novel sensor anomaly detection technique (SADS) 
for detecting high-risk disease. In the SADS technique, the health 
service provider outsources an encrypted health tree for reference to the 

-----
cloud. Authenticated users send encrypted physiological data to the 
cloud to detect high-risk disease without disclosing his/her sensitive 
personal health data. Then, with the oblivious pseudorandom function 
protocol (OPRF), the user queries the diagnosis result accurately.  
Thirdly, we propose an efficient and privacy-preserving priority 
classification scheme (PPC), for classifying patients’ encrypted data at 
the Wireless Body Area Network gateway (WBAN-gateway) in a 
remote eHealthcare system. Specifically, to reduce the system latency, 
we design a non-interactive privacy-preserving priority classification 
algorithm, which allows the WBAN-gateway to conduct the privacy-
preserving priority classification for the received users’ medical packets 
by itself and relay these packets according to their priorities 
(criticalities).  
 
 
 
 
List of Author’s Publications  
Journal papers: 
[1] G.Wang, R.Lu, and Y.L.Guan, “Enabling efficient and privacy-
preserving health query over outsourced cloud”, IEEE Access, vol. PP, 
pp. 11, 11 2018.  
[1] G.Wang, R.Lu,and Y.L.Guan,“Achieve privacy-preserving priority 
classification on pa- tient health data in remote eHealthcare system”, 
IEEE Access, pp. 1-1, 1 2019.  
Conference papers:  
[1] G.Wang, R.Lu, C.Huang, “PGuide: An Efficient and Privacy-
Preserving Smartphone- Based Pre-Clinical Guidance Scheme”, IEEE 

-----
Globecom’15, San Diego, CA, USA, December 6 - 10, 2015.  
[2] G.Wang, R.Lu, C.Huang, “PSLP: Privacy-Preserving Single-Layer 
Perceptron Learn- ing for e-Healthcare”, ICICS’15, Singapore, 
December 2 - 4, 2015.  
 

-----
