 
ABSTRACT 
Low-Power High-Performance SAR ADC with Redundancy and Digital 
Error Correction 
The demands for data converters has soared in the last decade, with a boom in consumer 
electronics, smart devices, autonomous vehicles and automotive segments. The current trend in Nyquist 
rate data converters, for example SAR ADC is more towards the high speed, medium to high resolution. 
This is due to the manufacturing advancements in CMOS technology, better capacitor matching, and 
lower power consumption. Analog-to-digital converters play a major role in every system on chip, and 
with technology scaling and lower supply voltage for ADC to operate, new design topologies or 
disruptive innovation have to be considered in order to attain high linearity and superior dynamic 
performance. Several factors such as supply noise, substrate noise coupling, DAC voltage setting time 
and comparator meta-stability can cause an erroneous result in the successive approximation register 
data converter, leading to degradation in dynamic performance. 
This thesis reviews different redundancy schemes for SAR ADC and analyses the literature for 
trends in data converters to find an optimum ADC topology to meet the research objectives. This work 
focuses on the six important contributions to SAR ADC research. Firstly, introduction of binary scaled 
redundancy that is embedded in the conventional capacitive DAC (CDAC) itself. Secondly, optimizing 
the use of redundancy by introducing a new CDAC switching scheme. Thirdly, introducing a simple bit 
overlap and add error correction technique for a 10-bit SAR ADC. The inspiration is drawn from the 
inherent error correction of a 1.5-bit/stage pipeline ADC. This implementation requires no additional 
conversion cycles to obtain a 10-bit resolution. A total of four erroneous decisions can be corrected in 
nine conversion cycles, irrespective of where the erroneous conversion cycle occurred. The bit overlap 
and add error correction logic provides opportunity for the error to propagate to the next conversion 
cycle where it can be corrected. Fourthly, introducing a new energy-efficient switching scheme for a 
multi-bit per cycle SAR ADC. The proposed constant common mode fractional reference voltage 
(CCM-FRV) switching scheme reduces CDAC switching energy by 83% with 50% area reduction for 

-----
each CDAC used when compared to conventional switching scheme [1] modified for implementing 
similar redundancy and error correction concept. Implementation of CCM-FRV switching scheme 
requires no special arithmetic units or additional hardware overheads to compute the DAC switching 
pattern, eliminating any speed bottleneck due to logic delay. Furthermore, the redundancy is in-built 
into the CDAC. Fifthly, the implementation of an event-based asynchronous timing generator is 
discussed for a multi-bit per cycle SAR ADC. All of the above five contributions are implemented using 
65nm 1P9M mixed-signal RF CMOS process. The test chip is fabricated in 65nm CMOS technology 
and occupies 0.038mm2 chip area. The prototype consumes 4.06mW from a 1.2V supply, achieving 
Nyquist SNDR of 57.81dB, an ENOB of 9.31 bits at an operating frequency of 150MS/s. The Walden 
figure of merit (FoM) is 42.6fJ/conversion-step.  Sixthly, a “more than Moore” design and fabrication 
methodology has been adopted to compare CMOS versus III-V compound semiconductor sampling 
switch performance. An on-chip fully integrated SAR ADC with III-V compound semiconductor 
sampling switch and remaining circuits in 0.18μm CMOS technology is implemented. On-chip 
integration is achieved by using a hybrid PDK that permits direct integration of Au-free III-V devices 
into a foundry-proven CMOS process. The 6-bit 125MSps SAR ADC occupies 0.0225mm2 chip area, 
achieves a post-layout simulated peak SNDR of 35.98dB /35.56dB and SFDR of 53.17dB / 48.7dB for 
InGaAs / CMOS based sampling switch ADC. The InGaAs based sampling switch ADC has 4.47dB 
better SFDR than CMOS based sampling switch. 
 
Reference 
 
[1] B. P. Ginsburg, and A. P. Chandrakasan, “An energy-efficient charge recycling approach for a SAR 
converter with capacitive DAC,” in IEEE Int. Symp. on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), 2005, pp. 
184-187. 
 

-----
