Near-IR and Mid-IR (1.55 μm – 2 μm) Silicon Photonics 
Devices on Silicon-on-Insulator (SOI) Platform 
Abstract 
In the last several decades, there has been considerable research interest in silicon 
photonics based on silicon-on-insulator (SOI) platform. Many useful applications 
have been developed in the near-infrared (NIR) data- and tele- communication band 
(1.3-1.6 µ
m), such as sensors, switches, modulators, and various passive devices. 
Furthermore, the mid-infrared (MIR, 2-15 μm) band is also very crucial as many 
gases and molecules have unique absorption fingerprints in this regime. Hence there is 
enormous interest in practical realization of passive and optoelectronic devices 
operating in the MIR range, including optical sensing and environmental monitoring, 
free-space communications, bio-medical and thermal imaging. Besides, 2 µ
m 
wavelength is a promising solution to extend the operating wavelength of 
communication system to short MIR wavelengths. The objective of this project is to 
develop SOI platform-based on-chip photonic devices including passive devices, 
sensors and optical modulators operating in the NIR and MIR bands.  
In order to build various photonic systems, several key on-chip fundamental passive 
components operating at 2 µ
m wavelength are developed and analyzed at the 
beginning of this project. These fundamental building blocks include waveguides, 
grating couplers, and microresonators. These components are successfully fabricated 
with good performance. For example, the grating coupler operating at 2 µ
m 

-----
wavelength was firstly fabricated and experimentally measured as 6.5 dB, which is 
comparable to the widely used grating couplers operating at 1.55 µ
m communication 
band. The extinction ratio (ER) and the quality factor (Q factor) of the compact 
microring resonator (radius = 10 µ
m) integrated with above grating couplers were 
firstly measured as 12 dB and 11200 respectively. 
As a practical method to improve the performance of sensors and modulators, Fano 
devices with a sharp asymmetric transmission lineshape and electromagnetically 
induced transparency (EIT) devices with time delay at the narrow optical transparency 
peak residing in a broader transmission absorption valley are designed, fabricated and 
characterized. In this work, an EIT transmission lineshape was experimentally 
generated with an all-pass microring-Bragg grating coupled resonant system for the 
first time. Based on the same system, the conversion between EIT and Fano 
transmissions was experimentally verified and the inner mechanism was discussed in 
detail. Subsequently, tunable and convertible EIT and Fano transmissions were 
experimentally 
realized 
in 
a 
Mach–Zehnder 
interferometer 
(MZI)-assisted 
microring-Bragg grating based coupling resonant system, which is believed to be the 
first report of its kind. 
Optical filters are also vital for modulators. For the dual-band optical filter (DBOF), 
since it can double the available modulating channels, it is also an effective solution 
to improve the efficiency of signal processing. In this work, two types of DBOFs 
based on partial-reflective-element-embedded microring resonators were theoretically 
and experimentally demonstrated for the first time. As measured, the separation 

-----
between two resonance dips and the insertion loss are 0.5 nm and <0.5 dB 
respectively. The Q factors of the two dips achieve 30900 and 34400 respectively. The 
performance is comparable to the up-to-date reported works. 
By utilizing the fundamental building blocks and taking the advantages of suspended 
structure, the bio-chemical sensor operating at 2 μm wavelength based on a suspended 
microracetrack resonator with sub-wavelength-grating (SWG) lateral metamaterial 
cladding is designed, fabricated and characterized for the first time. The expected 
sensitivities of the fundamental TE and the fundamental TM mode were calculated as 
203 nm/RIU and 592.5 nm/RIU respectively. This is believed to be the first 
demonstration of on-chip photonic bio-chemical sensor operating at 2 μm wavelength 
with sensitivities comparable to the latest reported results at 1.55 μm wavelength. 
With additional implantation and electrode fabrication processes, thermal-optical (TO) 
and electro-optical (EO) modulators operating at 2 μm wavelength were also 
experimentally demonstrated for the first time in this work. The DC shifting rate and 
the 3 dB bandwidth of the TO modulator are measured as 0.05 nm/V and ~30.8 KHz 
respectively. The 3 dB bandwidth of the EO modulator is measured as ~5GHz. 
Although the preliminary performance of these modulators is not as good as the latest 
reported modulators operating in the NIR communication band, they pave the way for 
extending the operating wavelength of communication system to short MIR 
wavelengths. 

-----
