Title: All-in-fiber sensing and light generation based on specialty fibers 
 
Abstract: 
All-in-fiber sensing and light generation devices are facing increasing demand due to their 
distinct features of being free standing and robust, great compactness, easy handling, low 
waveguide losses and low cost for mass produce. Compared with conventional fibers, 
specialty fibers are able to provide better sensing and light generation performance since they 
enable great flexibility in manipulating light guidance property through simply tuning fiber 
structures, and enhanced light-matter interaction by hosting aqueous matter in the air 
channels running along the entire fiber length. Currently, the development and applications of 
high performance all-in-fiber sensing and light generation are still limited by low sensing 
sensitivity, bulky setup introduced by free space light coupling and difficulties in the 
replacement or manipulation of liquids in the air channel. 
To address the aforementioned challenges and difficulties, we design, fabricate, and 
systematically investigate a number of all-in-fiber sensing and light generation systems. 
Firstly, we design and fabricate a side channel photonic crystal fiber (SC-PCF) for 
developing highly sensitive aqueous sensing. SC-PCF has a solid core and triangular lattice 
cladding structure. Partial lattice cladding is intentionally removed to enable fast liquid 
infiltration speed and strong light-matter interaction. By precisely splicing this SC-PCF to 
side-polished single mode fiber (SMF), a fiber long period grating and a Sagnac 
interferometer are experimentally realized and investigated for all-in-fiber optofluidic 
refractive index (RI) sensing and biological sensing. We achieve a high RI sensitivity of 1145 
nm/RIU with the SC-PCF long period grating, and more importantly we are able to detect 1 
μ M cardiac troponin T protein with the highly sensitive Sagnac interferometer. Secondly, an 
ultrasensitive surface enhanced Raman sensing platform is demonstrated with optimized 
geometry of the SC-PCF. With this new fiber structure, we achieve an ultra-low detection 
limit of 50 fM Rhodamine 6G solutions. Thirdly, to generate a unique light emission for 
biomedical analysis and phototherapy with minimal invasion, we develop a multilayer 
photonic bandgap (PBG) fiber laser with quantum dots (QDs) solution as the gain medium 
infiltrated in the hollow core. The PBG fiber laser platform has unique characteristics of large 
emission surface perpendicular to fiber axis and remote pumping configuration, which 
provides a substantial impact on both studies of lasing mechanism and future developments 
of a variety of applications for biomedical analysis. Finally, we investigate the performance 
of a plasmonic random laser fabricated via polymer cold-drawing. As the flexible polymer 
based random laser can be easily attached to fiber end face, integrated with the pumping 
configuration provided by the optical fiber waveguide, this random laser has great potential 
of serving as a flexible and versatile light source with large surface emission area for in vivo 
sensing and speckle-free optical imaging. 
In this thesis, design, fabrication and applications of specialty fibers and structures for all-in-
fiber sensing and light generation with high performance are presented. Further investigations 
on the integration of all-in-fiber light generation and chemical/biological analysis will be 
carried out in the near future. 

-----
