Title: Engineering of Triboelectric-Nanogenerator (TENG) Powered Devices and 
Lab-on-a-Chip Devices for Biological Applications 
 
The triboelectric effect is the phenomenon that when two different materials come into 
contact through friction, their surfaces become oppositely charged. Triboelectric-
nanogenerator (TENG) was invented based on this phenomenon to effectively harness 
ambient mechanical energy that is omnipresent but usually not effectively utilized in 
daily life. Lab-on-a-chip (LOC) technology is usually referred as a device that 
integrates one or several laboratory functions on a single chip, with features such as 
low fluid volumes consumption, faster analysis and response times and better process 
control. In this thesis, TENG powered devices and LOC Devices are engineered to 
realize various biomedical applications. First, a rotary TENG was utilized to harvest 
energy from human body’s motion to power an implantable drug delivery actuator for 
controlled and localized administration of drugs. In another application as energy 
source, the same TENG was used for photodynamic therapy to demonstrate an 
enhanced therapeutic effects of a chemo drug when being applied together with a 
photosensitizer, chlorin e6. Other than being used as energy source, the output of TENG 
can also be utilized directly as electrical stimulations. A contact-separation mode 
TENG was used in a nanowires-assisted electroporation system to generate electrical 
stimulations which induce perforation on cancer cells, thus facilitating the transfection 
of siRNA without the aid of nano-carriers. This system can serve as an effective and 
versatile platform for high-throughput gene delivery in biological research and cancer 
treatment studies. In the realm of LOC devices, a biochip was developed for dual 
functions of preserving the viability of epithelial tissues as well as real time monitoring 
the transepithelial resistance of the tissue on-chip. Last, the strengths of TENG and 
LOC were effectively utilized to develop a fundamentally new method for detecting 
trace amount of heavy metals in water. By coating the sensing surface with specific 
chelating agent, selective detection of lead ions was achieved.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

-----
