CONDITION MONITORING OF CAPACITORS IN POWER 
ELECTRONIC CONVERTERS 
 
Abstract 
Marine and aerospace industries are driven towards more electric aircrafts and ships 
due to the demand to optimise performance using electrical systems which are more efficient 
than the traditional mechanical systems and to reduce gas emissions caused by fossil fuels. 
With the indispensable nature of the power converters in applications such as hybrid 
propulsion, electric vehicles, and many other safety-critical systems, condition monitoring of 
power converters has become essential to ensure high safety and reliability. A power converter 
is made up of components like capacitors, inductors, power semiconductor devices, gate 
drivers, sensors and a control unit. The unexpected failure of one or more of these components 
may lead to system downtime. In power converters, aluminium electrolytic capacitors play 
significant roles such as filters, snubbers, and energy storage elements. However, they are also 
one of the most vulnerable components due to their high failure rates compared to other 
components in a power converter. Therefore, with the increase in the use of capacitors in 
critical applications, condition monitoring of capacitors to prevent unexpected failures has 
become inevitable. The main factors affecting the lifetime of capacitors are environmental 
factors such as ambient temperature, vibration, humidity, etc., and electrical factors such as 
operating voltage, ripple current, and charge-discharge duty ratio. 
Several research findings have been published regarding condition monitoring of 
capacitors. However, none or a limited number of the methods are adopted by industries 
because the existing condition monitoring approaches are either unreliable or highly complex 
and expensive to implement which make them impracticable. Hence, this research focuses on 
developing and implementing a novel, reliable, and cost-effective prognostic and health 
monitoring technology for capacitors to predict the failure during the early stages of its 
degradation and thereby enabling preventive maintenance. This research has been carried out 
in three phases. The first phase of research focuses on the study of construction, physical 
properties, equivalent circuit models, and failure mechanisms of an electrolytic capacitor to 
develop reliable methods to identify and track the dominant failure mechanisms. The most 
common failure mechanism in an electrolytic capacitor is the electrolyte evaporation which 
causes the increase in equivalent series resistance (ESR) and decrease in capacitance. 
Therefore, the ESR and capacitance of the capacitor are selected as the indicators to track 
capacitor degradation.  Reliable and accurate parameter estimation methods are developed to 
estimate the ESR and capacitance. The developed methods have been tested experimentally in 
a three-phase inverter test rig and found that the error in estimation is less than 3% for ESR 
and 1% for capacitance. The degradation indicators are sensitive to both operating temperature 
and frequency. Therefore, the indicators must be normalized before decisions can be taken.  

-----
The second phase of research focuses on accelerated aging tests to study the 
degradation behavior and physical properties of degradation indicator. For this purpose, 30 
samples of electrolytic capacitors are divided into five groups of six samples each and subjected 
to five different voltage levels at accelerated thermal stress of 10°C above the rated value. 
Based on the analysis of physical properties of electrolytic capacitors before and after ageing, 
normalization methods are developed to account for frequency and temperature variations. The 
study of impact of ageing process on physical properties is one of the important contributions 
by this thesis as it increases failure detection accuracy by a margin as high as 80% in some 
cases. The final phase of research aims to develop methods to estimate the remaining useful 
life (RUL) of capacitors. The results from accelerated aging tests are used to develop 
exponential degradation model to estimate remaining useful life based on the known failure 
threshold for degradation indicators. Two different methods are developed to estimate 
remaining useful life using nonlinear regression and extended Kalman filter. The comparison 
of both methods in terms of performance and complexity is done to highlight the suitability of 
methods for different applications. 
 
Publications 
Journals: 
 
 
P. Sundararajan, M. H. M. Sathik, F. Sasongko, C. S. Tan, M. Tariq, and R. Simanjorang, "Online 
condition monitoring system for DC-link capacitor in industrial power converters," IEEE Trans. 
Ind. Appl., vol. 54, no. 5, pp. 4775-4785, Sept.-Oct. 2018.  
 
P. Sundararajan, M. H. M. Sathik, F. Sasongko, C. S. Tan, J. Pou, F. Blaabjerg and A. Gupta, 
“Condition Monitoring of DC-Link Capacitors using Goertzel Algorithm for Failure Precursor 
Parameter 
and 
Temperature 
Estimation,” 
IEEE 
Trans. 
Power 
Electron. 
(SUBMITTED/REVISION) 
 
M. Sathik, S. Prasanth, F. Sasongko, and J.Pou, “Lifetime estimation of off-the-shelf aerospace 
power converters,” IEEE Aerospace Electron. Mag., vol. 33, no. 12, pp. 26-38, Dec. 2018.  
 
M. Sathik, S. Prasanth, F. Sasongko, and J.Pou, “Online condition monitoring of IGBT modules 
using current-change rate identification,” Microelectron. Reliab., vol. 92, pp. 55-62, Jan. 2019. 
 
Conferences:  
 
 
S. Prasanth, M. H. M. Sathik, F. Sasongko, C. S. Tan, P. Yaxin, and R. Simanjorang, “Condition 
Monitoring of Electrolytic Capacitor based on ESR Estimation and Thermal Impedance model 
using Improved Power Loss Computation,” in IEEE Proceeding, IPEC/ECCE-ASIA 2018, Niigata, 
Japan.  
 
S. Prasanth, M. H. M. Sathik, F. Sasongko, T. C. Seng, M. Tariq, and R. Simanjorang, “Online 
Equivalent Series Resistance Estimation Method for Condition Monitoring of DC-Link 
Capacitors,” in IEEE Proceeding, ECCE 2017, pp. 1773–1780.  
 

-----
