Abstract 
Three-dimensional (3D) display technology is a fascinating research topic with wide 
applications such as 3D entertainment, medical imaging, interactive displays and virtual 
reality, etc. However the prevailing solutions has various defects such as great loss of 
resolution, low brightness, fixed view location and the constraint of wearing special 
glasses.  Glasses-free 3D displays which can provide vivid 3D scene without any 
constraints are particularly attractive and will greatly change the way human beings 
perceive the world. In this thesis, two high resolution Autostereoscopic 3D displays 
have been proposed and experimentally demonstrated. 
 For the first prototype, an eye-tracked 3D display using modulated laser-based 
backlight has been proposed, which is composed of a scanning laser module, a 
ferroelectric liquid crystal (FLC) spatial light modulator (SLM) array module, an 
assembled liquid crystal display (LCD) module. In our proposed system, the scanning 
laser backlight is modulated by the aperture pairs generated on FLC SLM array. Each 
aperture pair projects two exist pupils on single viewer’s left and right eyes in time 
sequence. By means of eye tracking technology, the dynamic aperture pairs are mapped 
with the location of viewers’ eye pupils simultaneously, which enables free movements 
of multi-viewers. A prototype system has been set up to verify this method. The 
experimental result shows that the 3D image resolution is lossless. High brightness, low 
crosstalk 3D contents are achieved due to collimated laser backlight. Viewers are 
enabled to move freely to observe 3D contents without wearing any glasses. 
For the second prototype, an autostereoscopic 3D display using a set of cylindrical 
optical elements as the backlight steering is proposed. The high density LED-based lens 
array controls the direction of the backlight for the user’s right and left views. A 
prototype system using a set of LED-based cylindrical lens, LED array modules and a 
high resolution LCD module is constructed. The directional backlight beams are 
synchronized with the right and left images alternately on the LCD screen, and two 
convergent viewing zones are formed alternately for one viewer. The experimental 
result shows a stereo video image with a natural 3D effect. A good colour 3D perception 
with full resolution is achieved without wearing glasses. 

-----
