Title: Highly Integrated Biosensors Based on Fiber Optics 
Abstract: 
Benefited from the advantages of flexibility, miniaturization, immunity to electromagnetic 
interference and compatibility with today’s well-developed optical communication system, 
fiber-optic sensors show huge potentials with the increasing demand of comprehensive 
perception in every aspect of life. Especially in the practices of biosensing, optical fibers are 
prevailing platforms for highly-sensitive, real-time, label-free and in vivo detection due to 
their high degree of integration, dielectric nature, non-toxicity and chemical inertness. In this 
thesis, we investigate several approaches focusing on the proper design of fiber structure and 
the efficient integrations with functional materials to enhance the effectiveness of light-matter 
interaction and the reliability of biosensing output. 
Firstly, we develop a highly sensitive magnetic field sensor based on magnetic-fluid-coated 
long period fiber grating (LPG). The emergence of optomagnetic biosensors in recent years 
brings the needs of all-optical, integrated and flexible magnetic field sensors. Benefited from 
the acute response of LPG to ambient medium and the remarkable magneto-optic properties 
of magnetic fluid, our proposed magnetic field sensor provides a superior sensitivity of 0.154 
dB/Gauss and a low measurement threshold of 7.4 Gauss. Secondly, we investigate the 
possibility of improving the performance of conventional fiber-optic surface plasmon 
resonance (SPR) biosensors by employing two-dimensional (2D) materials. The one-atom-
thick 2D material can be seamlessly integrated with noble metal nanofilm to form a 2D 
material/metal hybrid plasmonic structure. Introducing a graphene layer not only strengthens 
the excited surface plasmons, but also acts as an excellent replacement of surface 
functionalization thanks to the fact that graphene stably immobilizes biomolecules via 𝜋-
stacking interaction. We construct a biosensor that integrates the hybrid plasmonic 
architecture with a side-polished optical fiber and apply it in the detection of single-stranded 
DNA (ssDNA). Both linear response to a wide range of ssDNA concentration from 1 pM to 
10 µM and a limit of detection as low as 1 pM are achieved. Thirdly, we explore the 
potentials of adopting transition metal oxides as an alternative class of plasmonic 2D 
materials in fiber-optic biosensing. Since surface plasmons of most 2D materials locate 
intrinsically at terahertz or mid-infrared range that are not accessible for frequently used and 
cost-effective optical system, 2D materials are predominantly used as a booster of 
conventional SPR sensing in visible and near-infrared (NIR) range. Here we demonstrate the 
strong surface plasmons of highly-doped 2D molybdenum trioxide (MoO3) nanoflakes in 
NIR range. Integrated with a microfiber, the positively charged MoO3 nanoflakes show good 
affinity to negatively charged biomolecules and our proposed biosensor provide a detection 
limit of bovine serum albumin as low as 1 pg/mL. Lastly, we propose a highly-birefringent 
microstructured optical fiber (MOF) based SPR biosensor. Since birefringence of fiber-optic 
platforms can hardly be avoided in practical applications and surface plasmons are only 
excited by TM-polarized light, external perturbation would induce polarization crosstalk 
thereby destabilize the sensor output. Here we theoretically investigate the relation between 
birefringence and measurement offset and find that large birefringence effectively suppress 
the impact of polarization crosstalk. We design and analyze a polarization-maintaining MOF 
with birefringence larger than 4 × 10-4 while providing a sensitivity as high as 3100 nm/RIU. 
In the studies we conducted so far, it is shown that the vast possibilities of optical fiber design 
and the breakthroughs of functional materials facilitate promising potentials in achieving 
highly sensitive and highly integrated biosensors. Further improvements in the specificity, 
sensitivity and integration of fiber-optic biosensors will be carried out in the near future. 

-----
