Extending depth range of optical coherence tomography  
 
Abstract 
 
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a noninvasive diagnostic imaging tool that has been established 
in various clinical fields. The most commonly cited issue of OCT in clinical practices is the short depth 
range. This thesis proposes four novel techniques to significantly extend the depth range without 
compromise other imaging performances. 
 
The OCT depth range is fundamentally limited by two main factors, which are focal range and system 
sensitivity. In the standard OCT systems, the focal range can only be improved by decreasing the 
numerical aperture (NA) of the focusing optics, which unfortunately sacrifices the transverse resolution. 
To achieve a high transverse resolution over an extended depth range, efforts have been made from both 
the focusing engineering and digital refocusing approaches.  
 
The elliptical beam design is developed to extend the intensity depth range optically. By angling the fiber 
terminal facet by θ with respect to the fiber axis, the effective NA in the XZ plane of the output will 
increase as the incident angle θ increases. However, in the YZ plane, the NA remains as the case of θ=0°. 
Such an anisotropic NA of the beam will produce approximately elliptical beam cross-sections in both the 
pupil plane and the focal plane of the focusing optics. Therefore, the intensity depth range can be 
significantly extended with respect to the standard circular beam based OCT, without compromising the 
transverse resolution in the X direction. For those OCT operating primarily in the B-mode, the elliptical 
beam technique can also mitigate the problems caused by other optical aberrations, including but not 
limited to chromatically focal shift, higher-order spherical aberrations, and field of curvature.  
 
In addition to the elliptical beam, a dual-foci optical design is proposed to extend the focal range of 
endoscopic OCT. We exploited the broad spectral bandwidth of the output from a supercontinuum source 
and. In the fiber probe, the foci of the 750-1000 nm and 1100-1450 nm inputs were chromatically shifted 
axially. The interference signals from the two spectral bands were measured with a Si camera-based 
spectrometer and an InGaAs camera-based spectrometer, respectively. Therefore, two images of different 
focal depth are acquired simultaneously. By compounding the two acquired frames, the resulted shows an 
extended focal region of 2 times larger than that of the single focus probe. 
 
An additional effort has been made to implement a digital refocusing technique, termed multiple aperture 
synthesis, in a fiber optical endoscopic probe to extend the OCT focal range. We designed and fabricated 
a novel fiber-optic probe in which a calcite beam displacer was used to create two sub-apertures. The 
optical aberrations in the depth domain were digitally corrected between the interferometric signals 
acquired through the two apertures using a pathlength encoded method. The feasibility of extending the 
depth range is demonstrated using tissue phantoms. 
 

-----
To improve system sensitivity, a spectrometer-input OCT was designed and developed. The input light 
was coupled in the system via the 0-order of the spectrometer grating. Under the condition that the light 
source power is enough to provide maximum permissible exposure in the sample, we demonstrate that the 
proposed OCT system design is advantageous in sensitivity over the standard OCT by 1.5dB.   
 
In conclusion, this thesis proposes four methods to significantly extend the OCT depth range while 
maintaining the state-of-art performance in other aspects, which has been demonstrated with phantom 
imaging and biological tissue imaging ex vivo. 
 
 
Publication 
 
Journal: 
 
1. 
Jinhan Li, Yuemei Luo, Xianghong Wang, Nanshuo Wang, En Bo, Si Chen, Shufen Chen, Shi 
Chen, Meng-Tsan Tsai, and Linbo Liu (2018). “Extending the depth of focus of fiber-optic optical 
coherence tomography using a chromatic dual-focus design,” Applied Optics, 57(21), 6040-6046. 
 
2. 
En Bo, Yuemei Luo, Si Chen, Xinyu Liu, Nanshuo Wang, Xin Ge, Xianghong Wang, Shufen 
Chen, Shi Chen, Jinhan Li, and Linbo Liu, "Depth of focus extension in optical coherence tomography 
via multiple aperture synthesis," Optica 4(7), 701-706 (2017). 
 
3. 
Jinhan Li, Jun Xie, and Linbo Liu "Fiber-tip interferometer for spectral domain optical coherence 
tomography," Submitted to Journal of Lightwave Technology. 
 
Conference: 
 
1. 
Jinhan Li, Linbo Liu, “Depth-of-focus Extended Common-path Probe OCT System”, CLEO-
PR,OECC and PGC, Jul.31-Aug.4, 2017, Sands Expo and Convention Centre, Singapore, Oral 
 
2. 
Jinhan Li, Linbo Liu, “Depth-of-focus extended chromatic dual-foci OCT”, SPIE BiOS 28 Jan- 2 
Feb, 2017, San Francisco, CA, USA, Oral 
 
Patent and technical disclosure: 
 

-----
1. 
Linbo Liu, Yuemei Luo, Jinhan Li, “High Resolution Optical Coherence Tomography 
Endoscopic Catheter”, Reference number: TD/179/16. 
 
2. 
Linbo Liu, Jinhan Li, “Method and apparatus to mitigate aberration problems in laser scanning 
imaging systems and spectrometers”, Reference number: 2019-130. 

-----
