Study of Plasmonic Nano-array for the  
Development of Cost-effective SERS Substrate 
 
Due to its excellent signal uniformity and reproducibility, well-ordered plasmonic nano-arrays 
demonstrate great potential as practical SERS probe for real-time in-situ analysis of 
molecules. A basic study of SERS mechanism was carried out to elucidate relevant factors 
that can affect SERS enhancement. The results revealed that the rarely discussed scattering 
cross-section can have substantial influence on SERS enhancement and should be 
considered for a complete understanding and optimization of the performance of SERS 
substrates. Two commonly used metallization techniques, DC sputtering and electron-beam 
(E-beam) evaporation, was investigated to quantify their effect on SERS performance. It was 
found that the E-beam evaporation technique produces inherently roughened gold film which 
serve as additional EM hotspots favourable for SERS. A hybrid metal deposition approach to 
exploit the advantages of both the sputtering and E-beam technique is proposed and verified. 
Two well-ordered and cost-effective SERS substrates were proposed and investigated. The 
first is a Au-SiO2 nano-pillar substrate fabricated by performing an additional plasma 
enhanced chemical vapour deposition of SiO2 on nano-sphere-lithorgraphy fabricated Si 
pillars to tune the plasmonic resonance of the nano-structures. The optimized  Au-SiO2 
nano-pillar exhibits comparable SERS performance as the well-established gold-film-over-
nano-sphere substrate and has the added advantage of better stability and reusability due to 
its inherently rigid structure. The second SERS substrate developed in this work comprises 
non-lithographic anodized aluminium oxide (AAO)-based nano-fibres (ANF) that are 
fabricated by optimizing the second anodization and incorporating an additional chemical 
wet-etching step. The optimized ANF substrate exhibits better sensitivity, signal-to-noise 
ratio, signal uniformity and stability than those of conventional substrates. The fabrication 
process of the ANF SERS substrate is also highly reproducible and scalable. Label-free 
detection of two DNA and RNA nucleobases are also demonstrated with the ANF SERS 
substrate. 

-----
 

-----
