 
 
Abstract 
Shrinking of the device feature size allows high complexity systems to be designed and 
integrated with into a single chip but also causes potential issues on system reliability. Existing 
coding techniques can only detect and correct transmission and storage errors but not errors 
occurred in arithmetic operations. Redundant Residue Number System (RRNS) is a number 
representation that offers a more versatile fault-tolerant capability that allows error corrections 
in arithmetic operation with lower complexity than majority vote triple modular redundancy 
for fault-tolerant computing in two’s complement number system. The main issue for existing 
RRNS-based multiple residue digit error correction algorithms is that they sacrifice a lot on 
either hardware cost by using large error correction lookup tables or speed due to inherent 
iterations of the algorithm, resulting in their inefficient hardware implementations. 
 
This thesis presents an innovative hardware-efficient FPGA implementation of RRNS without 
iteration for multiple residue digit error detection and correction. The implementation is based 
on a syndrome-based table-lookup algorithm with new architectural design to address reduce 
the hardware cost and increase its speed. It adaptively partitions all the information channels 
such that each partitioned block contains no more than two information channels. The 
partitioned blocks handle the smaller scale error correction task independently and their 
outputs are combined to provide the corrected value. Each of the partitioned block is 
implemented by a modified double-error correction circuit by appropriately reorder the error 
vectors for table-lookup and applying modulo arithmetic properties to replace lookup tables 
(LUTs) with logic and adder-based circuits. The syndrome generation module is realized by 

-----
 
 
base-extension operation. An array of binary comparators is used for modulo reduction factor 
computation and common reverse conversion circuitries among modulo channels are reused to 
lower hardware cost. Hardware cost due to large modulo reduction operation is further reduced 
by multi-level table lookup technique. Virtex-UltraScale xcvu190-flgc2104-2-e FPGA is used 
to evaluate the hardware cost and the circuit speed of the proposed implementation and direct 
implementations of other RRNS-based multiple error correction algorithms. It has in total of 
1074240 LUT slices and 2148480 flip-flops available.  FPGA synthesis results show that the 
proposed work has the lowest hardware cost, critical path delay and throughput compared with 
other implementations. Using small arbitrary moduli set given that the size of each information 
channel no more than 8-bit, with eight information channels and sixteen correctable residue 
digit errors, the proposed circuit can be implemented with 17584 LUT slices (1.6% of the total 
available LUT slices) and critical path delay of 17.6 ns. This achieves 99% of hardware saving 
and 57% of speed improvement over direct implementation of the other recent RRNS-based 
algorithm.  
 

-----
