Abstract
Noble metals are widely used and researched in heterogeneous catalysis due to remarkable
catalytic performances. First principle density functional theory (DFT) method provides a
powerful way to perform large-scale and high-computing simulations to investigate the design
rule in heterogeneous catalysis theoretically. In this thesis, we have investigated on the
catalytic activity of palladium (Pd) and platinum (Pt) based bimetallic alloy with non-precious
transition metals by density functional theory calculations. This thesis contains three parts:
firstly, we have studied overlayer model of Pd-Cu and Pt-Cu bimetal alloy; secondly, we have
studied the Pd monolayer model of Pd monolayer supported on Pd-M (M=Cu, Fe, Ni)
intermetallic alloy; thirdly, we have studied the single atom alloy (SAA) model of dispersedly
distributed Pt atoms doped in Cu(111) surfaces. The major results of the thesis are as follows.
It is found out that the number of Pd (or Pt) cover layer can effectively influence the surface
Pd (or Pt) activity. This is explained and supported by d-band center theory, where the d-band
center of Pd (or Pt) atom is modulated by both the number of cover layer and substrate charge
transfer. The proposed Pd-Cu bimetallic alloy is found to perform effectively as CO oxidation
catalyst and the proposed Pt-Cu bimetallic alloy can be used as fuel cell anode materials with
enhanced CO-tolerance ability. The famous Brǿnsted-Evans-Polanyi (BEP) relation is used to
analyze the catalytic trend. For intermetallic alloy case, it is experimental proved that Pd-Cu
alloy can be transformed from face-center cubic (fcc) alloy to body-center cubic (bcc) alloy,
and Pd-Fe and Pd-Ni alloy can be transformed from fcc alloy to face-centered tetragonal (fct)
alloy. We have investigated on the activity of these intermetallic alloy as electrocatalysts for
oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). The enhanced performance is ascribed to moderate
adsorption strength. For single atom alloy case, Pt atoms tend to dope on surface (slab model)
or outmost shell (nanocluster model) sites. The H2 dissociation ability is improved by
subsequent subsurface or inner Pt dopant.

-----
Publication list
1. Liu, J.; Fan, X.; Sun, C. Q.; Zhu, W., DFT Study on bimetallic Pt/Cu (111) as Efficient Catalyst for
H2 Dissociation. Applied Surface Science 2018, 441, 23-28.
2. Liu, J.; Fan, X.; Sun, C. Q.; Zhu, W., DFT Study on Intermetallic Pd–Cu Alloy with Cover Layer
Pd as Efficient Catalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. Materials 2017, 11 (1), 33.
3. Liu, J.; Fan, X.; Sun, C. Q.; Zhu, W., Layer effect on catalytic activity of Pd-Cu bimetal for CO
oxidation. Applied Catalysis A: General 2017, 538, 66-73.
4. Liu, J.; Fan, X.; Sun, C.; Zhu, W., Transparent conductivity modulation of ZnO by group-IVA
doping. Chemical Physics Letters 2016, 649, 78-83.
5. Liu, J.; Fan, X.; Sun, C.; Zhu, W., Oxidation of the titanium (0001) surface: diffusion processes of
oxygen from DFT. RSC Advances 2016, 6 (75), 71311-71318.
6. Liu, J.; Sun, C.; Zhu, W., Origin of efficient oxygen reduction reaction on Pd monolayer supported
on Pd-M (M=Ni, Fe, Fe) intermetallic alloy. Submitted to Electrochimica Acta.
7. Liu, J.; Sun, C. Q.; Zhu, W., A comparative study on single atom alloy of Pt doped Cu flat surface
and nanoclsuter. (In preparation)

-----
