RSS Indoor Localization and Tracking with INS Assistance 
 
In recent years various indoor localization and tracking systems have received 
great attention with the increasing demand of location-aware applications in 
indoor environments. Wireless localization technologies such as received signal 
strength (RSS) based localization system is widely used due to its low 
implementation cost. However it suffers poor localization accuracy due to 
multipath and non-line-of-sight (NLOS) propagation. Unlike wireless 
localization system, inertial navigation system (INS) doesn’t suffer from 
multipath and NLOS propagation issue. But INS accuracy degrades as time 
elapses due to accumulated noise in accelerometers and gyroscopes. Furthermore, 
inaccurate estimation of inertial measurement unit (IMU) orientation leads to 
wrong projection of gravitational acceleration into accelerometers, which will 
cause large localization error. Several fusion systems such as INS with RSS, INS 
with map etc. have been extensively explored to mitigate above mentioned issues. 
The existing INS based technique uses INS zero velocity update (ZUPT) with 
extended Kalman filter (EKF) to mitigate the orientation and localization error. 
ZUPT requires user to tie IMU on foot to leverage zero velocity measurement to 
calibrate IMU continuously. To further improve localization accuracy, particle 
filter (PF) is proposed to model the nonlinear system and maps are used to confine 
particles movement. The placement of IMU to utilize ZUPT, the computation 
complexity of PF and the availability of accurate maps make the fusion system 
challenging for implementation. 
 
This thesis focuses on novel weighted RSS indoor localization and tracking 
scheme using INS projection. Our proposed scheme does not require IMU to be 
placed on foot and map information is not needed either. It also reduces 
computation time compared to PF.  

-----
This thesis derived a closed form equation to analyze the noise of acceleration 
along navigation frame, which leads to the error growth of stand-alone INS 
positioning estimation. The results will be used to calculate weight for proposed 
scheme in later chapters. With perfect knowledge of IMU orientation with respect 
to the navigation frame coordinates, this thesis proposes a novel weighted 
nonlinear RSS localization and tracking scheme fused with INS positioning 
estimation projection. Due to the accumulating impact of the noise on gyroscope, 
INS based localization performance deteriorates rapidly even with the known 
initial orientation assumption. Thus, a novel algorithm is proposed to 
continuously mitigate the impact of noise on gyroscopes. Simulation results 
obtained from three different scenarios show the proposed RSS localization 
scheme fused with INS projection outperforms conventional fusion scheme using 
EKF by up to 56%. 
 
To develop a more practical scheme without perfect knowledge of IMU 
orientation with respect to the navigation frame coordinates, a novel algorithm 
has been proposed to estimate the initial orientation during the calibration stage. 
To further mitigate the noise from IMU, another algorithm is proposed to 
continuously mitigate the effect of noise on accelerometers. With all the proposed 
noise mitigation algorithms and initial calibration, simulation results obtained 
from three different scenarios show the proposed RSS localization scheme fused 
with INS projection significantly outperforms conventional fusion scheme using 
EKF by up to 65%. 
 
 

-----
