Abstract 
 
This Ph.D. program pertains to the design and realization of two fundamental 
analog circuits in deep-submicron CMOS – a Low DropOut voltage regulator (LDO) 
and a voltage reference. The targeted applications for the LDO and voltage reference 
are respectively the emerging Internet-of-Things (IoT) and the both IoT and satellites. 
Some of the most imperative considerations for the design of Integrated Circuits (ICs) 
and Systems-on-Chip (SoC) for IoTs include a small form factor, complex 
functionalities, low power and low cost. These attributes are often realized by 
employing deep-submicron CMOS processes, e.g., 65nm, resulting in a somewhat 
challenging operating environment, including a low supply voltage, large thermal 
gradient, severe noise (coupling), etc. For satellites operating in an extra-terrestrial 
environment, the operating environment for ICs/SoCs is even challenging due to the 
extended temperature range and various radiation effects. In the perspective of these 
challenging operating environments, our design of an LDO and a voltage reference are 
as follows. 
 
For the LDO design for IoTs, the most critical and challenging attribute is 
arguably the high Power Supply Rejection Ratio (PSRR), not only over a wide 
frequency range but also over a large load current range. In this Ph.D. program, we 
propose an LDO, realized in 65nm CMOS, featuring the highest PSRR reported in the 
literature to date – specifically including >60dB over 10MHz frequency range, and 
100mA large load current range. The high PSRR is achieved by a proposed Feed 
Forward Ripple Cancellation (FFRC) technique embodying an adaptive load current 
tracking scheme. In addition, by means of embodying an nMOS-based power stage, the 

-----
proposed LDO also achieves very low dropout voltage of 80mV and features very small 
overshoot and undershoot of 2mV and 4mV, respectively.  
 
For the design of voltage reference for both IoTs and satellites, a low 
Temperature Coefficient (TC) over a wide temperature range achieved with a low 
supply voltage is increasingly preferable. In this Ph.D. program, we propose a sub-1V 
MOSFET-only voltage reference realized in 65nm CMOS featuring a low Temperature 
Coefficient (TC) of 5.6ppm/°C over a wide temperature range from -40°C to 125°C and 
a high PSRR over a wide frequency range (87dB to 800kHz, and 75dB at 1MHz). The 
low TC attributes are achieved by a novel curvature-compensation technique based on 
a comprehensive investigation into the mechanism of the Zero Temperature Coefficient 
(ZTC) point of an nMOS transistor – our discovery of a new phenomenon of the effect 
of the drain-to-source voltage of an nMOS on TC. The proposed MOSFET-only voltage 
reference is arguably hitherto the only MOSFET-only voltage reference to-date 
embodying curvature compensation. The high PSRR is obtained by means of utilizing 
an active attenuator and the impedance adapting frequency compensation. Further, by 
exploiting the inherent immunity of the ZTC point against radiation effect, the proposed 
MOSFET-only voltage reference is a paradigm of the Radiation Hardened By Design 
(RHBD) approach for analog circuits. A prototype design realized in 130nm CMOS 
tested under irradiation conditions feature very high radiation hardness. Specifically, 
under 1Mrad Total Ionizing Dosage, it features <1.5% output variation and is error-free 
under Linear Energy Transfer of 77MeVcm2/mg. To the best of our knowledge, our 
proposed voltage reference is the only reported MOSFET-only voltage reference 
featuring full radiation hardness. This feature is particularly imperative for the design 
of MOSFET-only radiation-hardened ICs/SoCs for satellites and IoTs for extra- 
terrestrial applications. 

-----
Publication List 
Journal publications 
[1] 
J. Jiang, W. Shu and J. S. Chang, "A 5.6 ppm/°C Temperature Coefficient, 87-dB 
PSRR, Sub-1-V Voltage Reference in 65-nm CMOS Exploiting the Zero-
Temperature-Coefficient Point," in IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, vol. 52, 
no. 3, pp. 623-633, March 2017. 
[2] 
J. Jiang, W. Shu and J. S. Chang, "A 65nm CMOS Low DropOut Regulator 
featuring >60dB PSRR over 10MHz frequency Range and 100mA Load Current 
Range," in IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits (minor review).  
Conference publications 
[1] 
J. Jiang, W. Shu, J. Chang and J. Liu, "A novel subthreshold voltage reference 
featuring 17ppm/°C TC within −40°C to 125°C and 75dB PSRR," 2015 IEEE 
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), Lisbon, 2015, pp. 
501-504. 
[2] 
J. Jiang, W. Shu, K. S. Chong, T. Lin, N. Lwin, J. Chang, and J. Liu, "Total 
Ionizing Dose (TID) effects on finger transistors in a 65nm CMOS process," 2016 
IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), Montreal, QC, 
2016, pp. 5-8. 
[3] 
J. Jiang, W. Shu, Y. Qu, K. S. Chong, and J. Chang, "Design and Test of a RHBD 
CMOS-only Voltage Reference," 2018 IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects 
Conference (accepted). 

-----
