Abstract 
The last 25 years have witnessed an exponential growth of the number of devices connected to the 
Internet of Things (IoT) from a million in 1992 to 20 billion in 2017. Despite IoT has become 
widespread, this concept is still not well-established due to several reasons such as lack of 
standards, security and data protection issues, maintenance cost, etc. Since much of the sensitive 
personal data is transmitted via IoT devices, security can be highlighted as one of the most 
important challenges for this area. Classical hardware cryptography methods have two major 
disadvantages, significant hardware overhead required for its implementation and non-volatile 
memory for secret key storage. One effective way to provide secure chip authentication with low 
overhead is the Physical Unclonable Functions (PUF). They are widely used as a cryptographic 
primitive to avoid the need for storing the key or secret that can be used to retrieve the device key 
in the non-volatile memory. PUFs uses the intrinsic manufacturing process variations of the chip 
to generate unique and random response to a given challenge to identify a chip. It is a unique 
property of the integrated circuit (IC). For reliable key generation, it is required that the responses 
of the PUF are highly stable against operating environment variations such as temperature and 
supply voltage variations. One of the most well-explored PUF design is Arbiter PUF (A-PUF), 
which has been utilized by Verayo to implement RFID ICs as well as by Xilinx to include PUF IP 
as a hardware root of trust for its new Zynq UltraScale+ devices. However, existing Arbiter PUF 
designs suffer from poor reliability especially when implemented on FPGA platform due to routing 
constraints. On the other hand, improving temporal stability of A-PUF responses makes the circuit 
vulnerable to modeling attack using machine learning methods. 
 
This thesis presents a comprehensive overview of state-of-the-art PUF designs and their ASIC and 
FPGA implementations. As a means for reliability enhancement, a new hybrid PUF based on A-
PUF is proposed. Using the RS-latch instead of D Flip-Flop as an arbiter makes it possible to 
expand the original response states to a ternary set {stable 0, stable 1 and High Frequency 
Oscillation (HFO)}. The enhanced reliability and uniqueness were attested by experimental results 
implemented on FPGA platform. To further improve its reliability to the ideal 1.0 over a wide 
range (from -45 °C to +90 °C) of temperature, a challenge classification algorithm is introduced. 
The proposed method has been tested on identical FPGA chips of two different families and has 
shown no degradation on uniqueness. To prevent modeling attack, two approaches based on non-
linear challenge processing are presented in this thesis. It has been shown that the proposed 
techniques are resilient against different machine learning algorithms including the most advanced 
Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolutionary Strategy (CMA-ES). The abovementioned 
contributions are utilized to build a low-cost authentication protocol based on 100% accurate 
model of A-PUF. 
 

-----
