Improvement of Antenna Efficiency by Using Ferrites and 
Metamaterials 
 
Abstract 
This thesis investigates how to improve the antenna efficiency. The efficiency is one 
of the most important parameters, which describes the ratio of radiated power and the input 
power of the antenna. For different types of antennas, there exist different factors that can 
influence the efficiency. For example, in the high frequency band, the mismatch loss and 
small size influence much on the efficiency. In the microwave frequency band, the dielectric 
loss in the substrate material is the main factor. And in millimeter wave frequency band, the 
loss in the feeding network limits the gain and efficiency of the antenna. 
Considering different influence factors, different techniques and methods are 
investigated to increase the efficiency. First, the compact and effective ferrites are selected to 
improve the HF antennas. Effective methods of using ferrites are proposed to improve at both 
desired frequency and a broad band. By analysing the current in the ground plane of antenna, 
the ferrites are arranged effectively and efficiently at the area with high current density to 
reduce the mismatch loss, then the current along the antenna is adjust to ensure the radiated 
energy. By using the methods, the mismatch loss is reduced, and the total efficiency is 
increased. 
Second, for the microwave microstrip antenna, the metamaterial is applied to improve 
the efficiency. The metamaterial is able to reduce the dielectric loss in the material, even the 
high loss material is still used as the substrate. When the metasurface is used as the ground 
plane, the effective permittivity and permeability of metamaterial are analysed, and the loss 
in the material is decreased. Thus, the efficiency of antenna can be improved at the resonant 
frequency. When the metamaterial is used as the radiator, the dispersion relation is studied to 
analyse the wave travelling in the metamaterial. The loss is decreased, and the efficiency of 
antenna is improved in a broad frequency band. 
Finally, for the millimeter wave antenna, the loss in the feeding network leads to 
small size of antenna array and low efficiency. The metamaterial is proposed to construct the 
feeding network instead of traditional microstrip lines. The loss is decreased, and more 
antenna can be contained in the antenna array. Additionally, the coupling technique is used to 
excite the antenna and connect the standard waveguide flange, so that the efficiency of 
antenna is improved. Furthermore, by etching simple slot phase shifters, the antenna array 
becomes beam steerable. 
The three proposed methods can contribute to efficient antennas in different 
frequency band by reducing the mismatch loss, dielectric loss and  transmission  losses,  
respectively. The three methods can be applied alone or in combination to improve the 
efficiency of antennas. 

-----
