ABSTRACT 
Title:  Design and Integration of Battery Energy Storage System in More Electric Aircraft. 
Details of the work done:  
In the presented work a detail study on the battery technologies used in aircrafts in the last five 
decades is done. A general background of the battery system is studied and the performance of the batteries 
based on energy densities and low temperature capabilities is evaluated for the deployment in the more 
electric aircraft (MEA). Evolution of MEA with its power system architecture and load profile is analysed 
to understand the requirements of the battery system. An effective battery energy storage system (BESS) 
is designed considering the weight saving and cost analysis factors. Based on the analysis, Li-ion battery 
with Lithium ferrous phosphate (LFP) chemistry is designed and proposed for the MEA.  
After the design, the proposed Li-ion battery system is successfully integrated with the power 
distribution 270V DC bus architecture of the MEA and tested under different dynamic conditions using 
three different control techniques. Firstly, a direct estimation based technique is proposed for determining 
the phase shift of the phase shifted high power bidirectional dc-dc “PSHPBD” converter (A charger for the 
batteries). Secondly, a current mode control for the single phase shift control technique for the PSHPBD 
converter is also proposed. The proposed control technique has an inherent capability of current limit.  The 
design of coupling inductor and duty cycle, keeping in view the requirement of maximum power transfer 
in the MEA environment as well as ZVS operation in wide range is done for the PSHPBD converter for 
MEA operating parameters. An optimal harmonic number based harmonic modeling of the PSHPBD 
converter is done so as to reduce the complexity involved in operating with the switch model. Thirdly, a 
peak current controller is also proposed which provides a limit on the peak current as well as it gives fast 
transient response. The advantages of using the proposed peak current control in avoiding the saturation of 
the transformer core is also reported in the work.  
Furthermore, a control method which can improve the life of the BESS and a multi-functional 
battery charger for an efficient operation of the BESS is also proposed. The proposed control method is 
activated during the light load conditions and reduces the RMS current of the charger circuit thereby 
reducing the losses and temperature rise in the system. The functionality of the proposed multi-functional 
battery charger is also discussed in detail in the work. 
 

-----
Publication List: 
Patents*: 
[1] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood and C. J. Gajanayake, “Multi-functional Battery Charger”, (in process). 
[2] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood and C. J. Gajanayake, “Control Method to Improve the Life of Battery 
Energy Storage System”, (in process). 
Journals: 
[3] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood, C. J. Gajanayake and A. K. Gupta, “Aircraft Batteries: Current Trend 
towards More Electric Aircraft”, in IET Electrical Systems in Transportation, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 93-
103, 6 2017. 
[4] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood, A. C. Moreddy, C. J. Gajanayake, M. Y. Lee and A. K. Gupta, 
“Reliability, Dead-Time and Feasibility Analysis of a Novel Modular Tank-less ZCS Inverter for 
More Electric Aircraft”, in IEEE Transactions on Transportation Electrification, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 
843-854, Dec. 2017. 
[5]  M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood and C. J. Gajanayake, “Modeling of a Lithium-ion Battery Energy 
Storage System and its Integration with the More Electric Aircraft 270 V DC Power Distribution 
Network using a Predictive Peak Current Control Technique”, in IEEE Access special issue on 
Battery Energy Storage and Management Systems, [in review]. 
Conferences: 
[6] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood, C. J. Gajanayake, A. K. Gupta and F. Sasongko, "Battery energy storage 
system integration to the more electric aircraft 270 V DC power distribution bus using peak current 
controlled dual active bridge converter," 2017 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition 
(ECCE), Cincinnati, OH, 2017, pp. 2068-2073. 
[7] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood, C. J. Gajanayake and A. K. Gupta, "Modeling of a Li-ion battery energy 
storage system using an optimal harmonic number based model of DC-DC converter for more 
electric aircraft," IECON 2016 - 42nd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics 
Society, Florence, 2016, pp. 4429-4434. 
[8] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood, C. J. Gajanayake and A. K. Gupta, "A Lithium-ion battery energy storage 
system using a bidirectional isolated DC-DC converter with current mode control for More Electric 
Aircraft," 2016 IEEE Symposium on Computer Applications & Industrial Electronics (ISCAIE), 
Penang, 2016, pp. 149-154. 

-----
[9] M. Tariq, A. I. Maswood,   et al., "Battery integration with more electric aircraft DC distribution 
network using phase shifted high power bidirectional DC-DC converter," 2015 IEEE PES Asia-
Pacific Power and Energy Engineering Conference (APPEEC), Brisbane, QLD, 2015, pp. 1-5. 
Note: * Both the patents are in review stage by Rolls-Royce global panel and have been approved by the 
ECG, Singapore local patent committee and the global subject matter expert (SME) for ECG, Rolls-Royce 
for possible publication of Patent. 
 
 

-----
