Abstract 
The discovery of graphene stimulated significant interest towards two dimensional 
materials owing to their unique structural, electronic, magnetic and other properties. 
Semiconducting transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) represent a class of layered 
materials with nonzero band gap, and as a result attract great attention. 
Density functional theory (DFT) is a method of choice for theoretical exploration of 
condensed matter. However, there exists well-known problem with band gap evaluation within 
DFT framework. Significant efforts were made to solve DFT band gap problem, still the results 
may vary significantly. Relatively accurate results for band gaps could be obtained by GW 
approximation. However, sometimes GW fails for more than 30% in band gap value and it is 
computationally expensive method. Thus, general theoretical approach for accurate band gap 
computation within DFT is in big demand, which can be used for exploration of new materials 
with the required properties. 
We recently proposed new general approach (GVJ-2e-method) for band gap calculation 
within DFT framework, which is based solely on total energies calculation and is adjustable 
parameter free. The GVJ-2e method was verified on wide range of materials from bulk 
semiconductors (ex. Si, C, Ge) to wide gap insulators (ex. Xe, Kr) and yielded band gap results 
with practically experimental accuracy. The errors of proposed method are smaller than errors 
of other widely used methods (GW, hybrid functional HSE, TB-mBJ functional). 
The thesis presents the results of applying the proposed method for the study of the 
properties of TMDs. First, the structural stability of bulk and monolayer TMDs (MoS2, MoSe2, 
WS2, WSe2) have been studied. For MoS2(1-x)Se2x alloy structural stability with increasing 
concentration of Se have been analyzed also at microscopic level (different relative positions 
of Se atoms in alloy). The electronic properties (band gaps and density of states) of bulk and 
monolayer TMDs, and MoS2(1-x)Se2x alloy are obtained. The calculated with GVJ-2e method 
band gaps are used in interpretation of experimental results for bulk and monolayer TMDs, 
and MoS2(1-x)Se2x alloy. 
 

-----
