OPTICAL PROPERTIES OF TITANIUM OXYNITRIDE THIN 
FILMS AND APPLICATION IN SELECTIVE SOLAR ABSORBER 
Zhang Jun 
ABSTRACT 
The selective solar absorber (SSA) is one of the key units in the concentrated solar power 
(CSP) system, which is a promising renewable and clean energy generation technique by 
using solar energy. The titanium oxynitride (TiNxOy) based SSA has been paid a lot of 
attention due to many advantages, such as environmental friendly, low cost, excellent optical 
property and so on. In this thesis, the optical properties of TiNxOy thin films have been 
investigated and the SSA based on TiNxOy thin film has been designed and modeled. 
Firstly, the TiNxOy thin films have been characterized with various techniques, including 
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), X-ray diffraction (XRD), atomic force microscope 
(AFM), transmission electron microscope (TEM), spectroscopic ellipsometry (SE), Hall 
effect measurement, spectrophotometer, etc. The TEM image confirms the existence of TiN 
nanoparticles in the TiNxOy thin films. The localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) of 
the TiN nanoparticles plays an important part in the optical properties of the TiNxOy thin 
films. Then the SE is carried out to model the dielectric function of the TiNxOy thin films by 
using an optical dispersion model with the consideration of LSPR effect, free electron 
absorption and interband transitions. It is found that the optical properties of the TiNxOy layer 
can be significantly affected by changing the N2 flow rate in the sputtering deposition process 
as a result of the tuning of N/O ratio in the TiNxOy thin films. 

-----
A single TiNxOy thin film based high performance SSA with the structure of SiO2-TiO2-
TiNxOy-Cu has been designed. The SiO2 and TiO2 thin films form a double-layer anti-
reflection coating (ARC). The TiNxOy thin film serves as the absorbing layer and the optical 
properties can be easily adjusted by the N2 flow rate, which provides a simple and effective 
way for the optimization of a high performance SSA. Due to large free electron 
concentration, the Cu substrate is used as the infrared reflector. The SSA based on the 
TiNxOy layer deposited with the N2 flow rate of 2 sccm achieves a solar absorbance of 
96.29% and a thermal emittance of 6.11% at the temperature of 400 ℃. 
In the TiNxOy thin film with low N/O ratio (TiNO_L) and TiNxOy thin film with high 
N/O ratio (TiNO_H), three absorption mechanisms have been modeled, including LSPR, free 
electron absorption and interband transitions. Because TiNO_H has a higher free electron 
concentration than that of TiNO_L, the absorption due to both the LSPR and free electron 
absorption in TiNO_H is found larger than that in TiNO_L. The absorption caused by the 
interband transitions in the TiNO_L and TiNO_H is close to each other. By using TiNO_L 
and TiNO_H, a double TiNxOy layer based SSA with the structure of SiO2-TiO2-TiNO_L-
TiNO_H-Cu has been proposed. It is found that the double TiNxOy based SSA has a wider 
low reflectance range than that of single TiNxOy based SSA. 
A low cost SSA with the structure of SiO2-TiNxOy-W/Cu has been fabricated on glass 
substrate. In the SSA, W/Cu thin film structure is used to serve as an infrared reflector. 
Without W thin film, the reflectance in both visible and infrared ranges of the SSA increases 
due to the crystallization of the Cu layer at elevated temperatures. With a W layer with 
appropriate film thickness, the increase of the reflectance in the visible range can be 
suppressed to maintain a high solar absorptance, while a high infrared reflectance can be 
maintained to achieve a low thermal emittance. 
 

-----
