Investigation and Design of Low Power Circuit Blocks for Medical Implant SoCs 
 
Medical implant devices have widely grown in recent years due to technological innovations 
in microelectronics and materials science. The total biomedical implants market has exceeded 
$150 Billion globally. There are numerous type of biomedical implant devices ranging from 
neural implants, cochlear implants, retinal implants, pacemakers, drug delivery implants, 
diabetic insulin pumps etc… with each focussed on a specific application to treat specific 
disease conditions in the human body, thereby enhancing the patient’s quality of life. But 
fundamentally, every medical implant device consists of electronics and battery. Due to size 
constraints, nowadays, major portion of the implant electronics is catered by an application 
specific system on chip (AS-SoC). Since, it is not convenient to replace batteries of the implant 
once it is inside the human body, ultra-low power consumption of system on chip (SoC) is 
essential to increase the life time of the implanted devices. Since the SoC itself is divided into 
numerous subsystems like power management unit (PMU), transceiver (TRx), phase locked 
loop (PLL), digital signal processor (DSP), data converters, logic circuits, analog front-end, bio 
sensors, stimulators and pulse generators, ultra-low power design of all the subsystems is 
essential to develop an ultra-low power SoC that is highly suitable for biomedical implants.  
 
This PhD research investigates 4 of the important circuit blocks of the medical implant SoC 
and proposes novel architectures for achieving an ultra-low power medical implant SoC. The 
4 circuit blocks are flip-flop, time-to-digital converter, ring oscillator and phase locked loop. 
The processor and logic unit of the implant SoC contains thousands to ten thousands of flip-
flops (FF) and hence the FF is one of the critical power consuming circuit of a SoC. Time-to-
digital converters are widely used for time of flight measurements in the implant SoC. Ring 
oscillators are widely used as voltage controlled oscillators (VCO) of the PLL in the implant 
SoC due to its lower area consumption compared with LC oscillators. Phase locked loops are 
heart of the transceiver and occupy a major portion of the transceiver both in terms of area 
and power consumption. They are used for frequency synthesis and clock generation in the 
implant SoC. Thus,in particular,this PhD research focuses on the design and development of, 
 
1. Ultra-low supply voltage sense-amplifier flip-flop [5] 
2. Low voltage and low power time-to-digital converter [2] 
3. Analysis of negative skewed ring oscillators [3] 
4. Low power and low area all-digital phase locked loop [1][4] 
 
Student Name: Ramaswami Palaniappan Arjun 
Supervisor: Assoc Prof. Siek Liter 

-----
Publications 
 
[1] 
A. Ramaswami Palaniappan and L. Siek, “An Ultra-Low Area All-Digital Phase Locked 
Loop for Medical Implant Applications,” Microprocessors and Microsystems, Under 
Revision, 2019. 
[2] 
A. Ramaswami Palaniappan and L. Siek, “A 0.6 V, 1.74 ps Resolution Capacitively 
Boosted Time-to-Digital Converter in 180 nm CMOS,” in IEEE International Symposium 
on Circuits and Systems, Accepted,  2019 
[3] 
J.S Teh, A. Ramaswami Palaniappan, and L. Siek, “Analysis of Negative Skewed Delay 
Scheme for Ring Oscillator With Multi-Phase Outputs,” IEEE Transactions on Very 
Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems, Submitted, 2019. 
[4] 
A. Ramaswami Palaniappan and L. Siek, “A 0.0186 mm2 , 0.65 V Supply, 9.53 ps RMS 
Jitter All-Digital PLL for Medical Implants,” in IEEE Nordic Circuits and Systems 
Conference (NORCAS): NORCHIP and International Symposium of System-on-Chip 
(SoC), 2018, pp. 1–4. 
[5] 
A. Ramaswami Palaniappan and L. Siek, “Wide-input dynamic range 1 MHz clock ultra-
low supply flip-flop,” Electronics Letters, 2018. 
[6] 
A. Ramaswami Palaniappan, J. Verlinden, L. Siek, "Sense Amplifier Flip-Flop with 
Symmetrical Rise and Fall Output Propagation Delay," NXP Defensive Publication ID: 
82095159, 2018. 
[7] 
J.S Teh, A. Ramaswami Palaniappan, L. Siek, and Y. Zheng, “Review of pulse 
generators for gated ring oscillator based Time-to-Digital converters,” in International 
Symposium on Integrated Circuits (ISIC), 2016, pp. 1–4. 
 

-----
