Abstract 
In the transceivers of both wireless communication and wireline communication, automatic 
gain control (AGC) system is widely used to provides a constant output power independent of 
the input signal strength. The variable gain amplifier (VGA), as the core block of AGC, is not 
only required to provide a wide gain variation range but also desirable for a dB-linear gain 
characteristic. Due to the absence of intrinsic exponential relationship in standard CMOS 
technology, it is difficult to realize an accurate dB-linear characteristic with low power 
consumption and small die area. In addition, if a broad bandwidth is demanded for high-speed 
communications, the design becomes more challenging. 
In this thesis, novel ideas are proposed to extend the gain range effectively with minimum 
hardware. Firstly, the approach by tuning the transconductance and output resistance of the 
amplifier simultaneously is brought forward. If both of the parameters can be tuned in the same 
direction while preserving an exponential feature in each, the total gain range would be the 
summation of the changes, leading to an extended gain tuning range as well as savings in power 
budget. Secondly, a new constructing method to improve the gain range is presented by 
exploiting the convex and concave functions together. As a result, an inverse S-shaped curve 
is obtained, which also offers the flexibility to choose various dB-linear accuracy for different 
applications. 
Furthermore, a wideband VGA for wireless communication and a 10Gb/s AGC system for 
wireline communication are designed with the proposed exponential approximation methods 
respectively. Several broadband techniques are adopted in order to achieve an inductorless 
design while minimizing the chip area.  Both of them are fabricated with 65 nm CMOS 
process and demonstrate a competitive performance compared with the state-of-art works. 
With the help of proposed exponential realization methods, VGA and AGC with large gain 
range, wide bandwidth while low power consumption are achieved. 
 
 

-----
Publication List 
[1] L. Kong, Y. Chen, C. C. Boon, P.-I. Mak. And R. P. Martins, “A wideband inductorless 
dB-linear automatic-gain control amplifier using a single-branch negative exponential 
generator for wireline applications,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: 
Regular Papers, vol. 65, no. 10, pp. 3196-3206, Oct. 2018. 
[2] H. Liu, X. He, X. Zhu, C. C. Boon, X. Yi and L. Kong, “A wideband analog-controlled 
variable-gain amplifier with dB-linear characteristic for high-frequency applications,” 
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 64, no. 2, pp.533–540, Feb. 2016. 
[3] H. Liu, X. Zhu, C. C. Boon, X. Yi and L. Kong, “A 71 dB 150 μW variable-gain amplifier 
in 0.18 μm CMOS technology,” IEEE Microw. Wireless Compon. Lett., vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 
334–336, May 2015. 
[4] L. Kong, C. C. Boon, H. Liu, X. Zhu, “Design of a wideband VGA with 40 dB gain range 
and ±0.6 dB gain error in 65 nm CMOS Technology for high-speed wireless 
communication system,” prepared for submission.  
 

-----
