i 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Methods for Resolving the Limitations of Degradation Diagnosis 
 for SiC Power MOSFET 
 
by 
 
Hui-Chen Yang 
 
Modern society is in quest of more electric power in various sectors. The rising power 
demand has driven the development trend of power electronic converters toward higher 
power density. Power electronic converters, however, are subject to continuous electrical 
and thermal strains that threatened their reliability. Any unexpected failure can incur 
unnecessary economic loss or even worse, safety hazards. Semiconductor power devices 
are the backbones in a power electronic converter, and yet, they are recognized as one of 
the most failure-prone components. Therefore, early detection of a power device’s 
incipient abnormality due to either aging, electrical stress or defect is crucial. 
Degradation diagnosis is a process of identifying an evolving damage before it develop 
into destructive failure. A variety of degradation diagnosis techniques have been proposed 
in earlier works. Among them, the time-domain on-state characteristics and thermal path 
integrity are the most frequently chosen properties as indications of device wear-out. As 
the measureable electrical variations associated degradation are typically subtle, the 
measurements are susceptible to system’s noise and loading conditions. Besides, as power 
applications are pursuing higher switching frequency to gain power density, the 
measurement system are demanding for higher bandwidth and could reach its data rate 

-----
ii 
 
bottleneck. For reliable and accurate prediction of developing faults, these challenges 
must be addressed.     
In this thesis, silicon carbide (SiC) MOSFET is chosen as the device for degradation 
diagnosis study, as it has shown great promise for high power density converter (HPDC) 
design owing to the excellent material property for high-frequency and high-temperature 
operation. The practical reliability issues responsible for power device degradation and 
challenges in degradation diagnosis are investigated. Special solutions are proposed to 
counter these challenges. Firstly, a voltage monitoring circuit with built-in isolation is 
proposed and experimentally verified up to 100 kHz. The embedded isolation eliminates 
EMI influence on the measured data, allows direct processing of the measured voltage 
information, and relaxes the data rate bottleneck of the data transmission interface of a 
measurement system. Secondly, a non-intrusive measurement method that measures the 
on-state impedance of a power device in frequency-domain for degradation diagnosis is 
proposed. The method overcomes the shortcomings of the conventional time-domain 
methods, which are easily affected by system’s noise and may have difficulties on 
detecting subtle electrical changes associated with reliability issues. Finally, a 
temperature sensor-less method is proposed to estimate power MOSFET’s junction 
temperature. It has experimentally demonstrated that by means of device saturation 
current (Id,sat) measurement, junction temperature can be estimated either by Id,sat, √𝐼𝑑,𝑠𝑎𝑡, 
or the extracted threshold voltage. 
 
 
 
 
 

-----
iii 
 
AUTHOR’S PUBLICATIONS 
 
[1] 
H.-C. Yang, K. Y. See, R. Simanjorang and K. R. Li, “Offline health diagnosis of 
power device based on non-intrusive inductively coupled approach,” IEEE J. 
Emerg. 
Sel. 
Topics 
Power 
Electron., 
accepted 
for 
publication. 
DOI:10.1109/JESTPE.2018.2811753. 
[2] 
H.-C. Yang, R. Simanjorang and K. Y. See, “A method for junction temperature 
estimation utilizing turn-on saturation current for SiC MOSFET,” Proc. Int. Power 
Electron. Conf. (IPEC-Niigata 2018 -ECCE-Asia), Niigata, Japan, May. 2018, pp. 
2296–2300. 
[3] 
H.-C. Yang, K. Y. See, K. J. Tseng and R. Simanjorang, “Real-time integratable 
isolated voltage monitoring unit of semiconductor power switch to improve power 
converter reliability,” Proc. IEEE Appl. Power Electron. Conf. and Expo. (APEC), 
Tampa, FL, USA, Mar. 2017, pp. 1614–1619. 
 
 
   
 

-----
