Abstract
Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) are excellent candidates to replace the widespread
conventional incandescent and fluorescent light sources. This stems from their
higher compactness and brightness, as well as their better performance in terms
of energy effi
ciency, long lifetime and high color rendering qualities.
Their
potential use in a broad number of applications attracted enormous interest to the
LED research and development. This translated in a rapid improvement of the
LED characteristics as well as in their commercialization in past years. Further
integration and miniaturization of these devices, for applications such as optical
communications, requires a higher level of control in terms of LED emission
characteristics control and a compact solution for any desired functionality on
the output. Metasurfaces (structured surfaces with engineered characteristics)
grant an unprecedented control over the wavefront of light, while retaining a
subwavelength-thickness character (relative to the excitation light wavelength).
Moreover, in some cases, they also offer opportunities for large scale industrial
fabrication. Among the different types of metasurfaces, those based on dielectric
and semiconductor materials typically exhibit lower losses comparing to metallic
counterparts, which potentially enhances the effi
ciency of the integrated device.
The main focus of this dissertation is the compact and novel LED
devices, with light emission characteristics on demand, by means of dielectric
metasurfaces. For this purpose, highly effi
cient metasurfaces based on dielectric
and semiconductor materials (Si, TiO2, GaN) have been designed and fabricated.
The functionalities realized with these include beam deflectors, polarization beam
iii

-----
splitters, complex light fi
eld generators and lenses.
For the latter, a novel
class of metasurfaces with asymmetric radiation profi
le was engineered. With
them, light channeling into a single desired diffractive order has been achieved
with effi
ciencies reaching 99%. Ultra high angle beam deflection metasurfaces
operating in visible regime were demonstrated using TiO2 for blue and green
and Si for red part of the spectra. Based on this concept, a near unity numerical
aperture (NA) lens was designed and fabricated, far exceeding any previously
reported, both commercial and laboratory experimental models.
Moving towards direct metasurface integration in conventional LED
platforms, GaN metasurfaces were etched directly into optically thick GaN slabs.
Despite the low index contrast between metasurface and the substrate (both GaN),
the metasurfaces exhibited high effi
ciencies within the operational wavelength
range of the LED emission. However, when excited with the photoluminescence
signal from the LED, the desired functionality was lost due to the low spatial
coherence (Lambertian shape of radiation pattern) of the LED. Hence, the
approach of direct integration of the metasurface on top of LED was shown to
be ineffi
cient.
To solve this issue, an external and internal cavity design solution for
LED and metasurface integration was proposed and engineered. The effi
cient
transformation of the Lambertian radiation pattern into plane-wave-like radiation,
suitable for the metasurface to work,
was experimentally demonstrated.
Further integration with the designed metasurfaces allowed obtaining advanced
functionalities for the LED emitted light, viz. beam deflection and vortex beam
generation. Those were realized in a GaP LED architecture via optical pumping.
The results presented in this dissertation constitute a step forward towards
compact, advanced, effi
cient and integrated optical devices, by leveraging on
the attractive platform of LEDs and the emerging fi
eld of metasurfaces, which
enables the unprecedented control of light.
The method proposed can be
applied to any other incoherent light sources beyond LEDs, and may fi
nd broad
iv

-----
applications in optical communications, Li-Fi, displays, advanced lighting and
many more.
Keywords:
LED, dielectric metasurfaces, RCLED, high angle beam
deflection, high NA lens, vortex beam, OAM, Si, TiO2, GaP, GaN.
v

-----
