Investigation of Two Dimensional Floquet
Topological Insulator Using Microwave Network
Hu Wenchao
The topological insulator is one of the most profound discoveries in theo-
retical physics during the past few decades. They are “topologically distinct”
from conventional insulators for being insulating in the ‘bulk’ while support-
ing metallic states on the surfaces. The most extraodinary physical property
is the existence of uni-directional transmission along the edge, which is ro-
bust to imperfections and has no back-reflection.
In 2005, Haldane and
Raghu introduced the concept of topological insulator into photonics by
theoretically proposing a photonic analogue of the quantum Hall effect in
photonic crystals. Wang et al. experimentally confirmed this idea by ob-
serving uni-directional transmission line in gyromagnetic photonic cystals
which operate in the microwave frequency range. “Topological photonics”
have also been realized with resonator lattices and waveguide lattice subse-
quently. However, in all these experiments, edge propagation measurements
serves exclusively as the proof of topological nontrivial system due to the
lack of direct analog of the Hall conductance or similar linear response-based
quantity. During my PhD career, my research has focused on the investi-
gate of two-dimensional Floquet topological insulators using a microwave
networks. The first part of my work involves a experimentally measuring a
topological edge invariant which consists of the integer winding numbers of
scattering matrix eigenvalues in a microwave network. The second part of
my study concerns the relation between topological edge invariants and ex-
ceptional points by introducing controllable loss and gain into the microwave
network.
The network model we used to measure topological edge invariants is
two-dimensional network which is mapped into a microwave network us-
ing Laughlin’s topological pump idea. The experiment setup is a two-port
network system with variable phase shifters. By measuring the scattering
matrix of the two-port network, we can observe the winding behavior of the
eigenvalues. We implemented this experiment using microwave components
1

-----
at 2.5 GHz and sucessfully observed the non-zero winding behavior for non-
trivial topological system and zero winding behavior for trivial topological
system, as predicted by theoretical arguments but never previously found in
an experiment.
Due to the existence of loss, the system we used to measure topological
edge invariant is non-Hermitian and actually we can never observe rigor-
ously non-zero winding in a finite system, since there always be a gap in the
projected band structure. Moreover, non-Hermitian effects will introduce
the novel physical feature of exceptional points into the bandstructure and
it is easy to introduce controllable loss and gain into our experiment setup.
Hence, we re-implement our experiment setup at 900 MHz and add digi-
tal variable attenulators into the system. By controlling gain and loss, we
demonstrate, theoretically and experimentally, a direct relationship between
a Hermitian topological invariant and exceptional point winding numbers.
In summary, my PhD research has concentrated on investigation of two
dimensional floquet topological insulators using microwave network. Two
major works have been finished, one is the experimental measurement of
topological edge invariants in the form of scattering matrix eigenvalue wind-
ing numbers in a microwave network. The other is theoretically and experi-
mentally proving the direct relation between Hermition topological invariant
and exceptional point winding numbers.
2

-----
