ABSTRACT 
In-Band Phase Noise Reduction Techniques for 
Phase-Locked Loops in Advanced CMOS Technologies 
Phase-locked loops (PLLs) have been successfully used as frequency 
synthesizers 
for 
decades 
in 
wireless 
communications. 
However, 
modern 
developments in communications require frequency synthesizers with wider loop 
bandwidth and better phase noise performance compared with the older specifications. 
Subsequently, synthesizers based on conventional charge-pump PLLs are facing 
challenges because their in-band phase noise is often limited by the phase detectors 
and charge pumps. Furthermore, PLL features such as short settling time and 
multiple-phase output are also important for some communication standards. Inspired 
by these requirements, this thesis aims to propose some helpful techniques to enhance 
the PLL in-band phase noise performance and to provide important features for the 
current and future wireless communications in the multi-GHz band. 
Same as all other integrated circuits, the design of PLL highly depends on the 
fabrication technologies. Several possible trends of the CMOS technologies have been 
predicted both by academics and by industry. In Chapter II, we review the industry 
landscape and provide our perspective at the macroscopic level, from which we settle 
the specific fields of our exploration to both analog and digital PLL (DPLL) designs. 
Among the existing analog PLL architectures, the lately developed fractional-N 
subsampling PLLs have enabled promising in-band performance and fine tuning steps 
for wireless systems. However, the prior arts need time-consuming calibrations (~20 
ms measured) and are not suitable for applications requiring short settling time, such 
as Bluetooth. To extend the subsampling PLL applications, Chapter III explores the 
fractional-N subsampling PLLs with a calibration-free manner and proposes a 
phase-switching subsampling technique. Fabricated in a 65 nm CMOS technology, a 

-----
2.6-3.4 GHz fractional-N 8-phase PLL using the proposed technique acquires an 
in-band phase noise of -100.3 dBc/Hz at 100 kHz offset without any calibration. 
Apart from traditional analog PLLs mentioned above, the more attractive 
concept of DPLL has been recently proposed to take advantage of the advancing 
CMOS technologies and design tools. The in-band noise performance of these DPLLs, 
however, is generally limited by the time-to-digital converters (TDCs). Accordingly, 
TDCs based on controlled oscillators have been reported to achieve low in-band noise 
and to eliminate delay calibration. Nevertheless, there is still a lot of headroom in 
such TDCs for lower noise. Chapter IV investigates the controlled oscillator based 
TDC family and develops a model to evaluate their noise characteristics. Inspired by 
this model, an inverted ring oscillator (IRO) technique is proposed, based on which a 
TDC achieves a low integrated noise of 196 fsrms in a 3 MHz bandwidth at 200 MS/s 
rate, showing lower in-band noise compared with state-of-the-arts. Moreover, a 
unique phase noise cancellation (up to 36.4 dB cancellation ratio measured) and a 
constant TDC power dissipation are demonstrated to further mitigate the DPLL noise. 
In summary, this thesis proposes some PLL in-band phase noise reduction 
techniques that would be helpful in the advanced CMOS technologies. The concepts, 
models and special techniques involved may trigger better ideas to drive further PLL 
developments in the future technology trends. 
 
 

-----
Author’s Publications 
Journal Papers: 
1. Zhipeng Liang, Xiang Yi, Kaituo Yang, Chirn Chye Boon, "A 2.6-3.4 GHz fractional-N 
sub-sampling phase-locked loop using a calibration-free phase-switching-sub-sampling technique," 
IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, accepted and to be published. 
2. Zhipeng Liang, Xiang Yi, Chirn Chye Boon, Guangyin Feng, Fanyi Meng, Kaituo Yang, “An 
inverted ring oscillator noise shaping time-to-digital converter with in-band noise reduction and 
oscillator phase noise cancellation,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, to be submitted. 
3. Zhipeng Liang, Xiang Yi, Chirn Chye Boon, “A 1.2 V 464 uW 0.8-6.5 GHz divider-by-6/7/8/9 
low-phase-noise multi-modulus frequency divider using 65 nm CMOS,” IEEE Microwave and 
Wireless Components Letters, to be submitted. 
4. Zhipeng Liang, Xiang Yi, Chirn Chye Boon, “A 1.7 mW 6 GHz low-phase-noise frequency divider 
with tunable IQ mismatch and 25%-duty-cycle outputs,” IEEE Microwave and Wireless 
Components Letters, to be submitted. 
5. Xiang Yi, Chirn Chye Boon, Guangyin Feng and Zhipeng Liang, "An eight-phase in-phase 
injection-coupled VCO in 65-nm CMOS technology," IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components 
Letters, vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 299-301, March 2017. 
Patent: 
1. Zhipeng Liang, Xiang Yi, Chirn Chye Boon, "Time-to-digital converter based on an invertible 
oscillator," U.S. Patent, being processed and to be filed. 
Conference Papers: 

-----
1. Xiang Yi, Zhipeng Liang, Guangyin Feng, Chirn Chye Boon and Fanyi Meng, "A 93.4-to-104.8 
GHz 57 mW fractional-N cascaded sub-sampling PLL with true in-phase injection-coupled QVCO 
in 65 nm CMOS," 2016 IEEE Radio Frequency Integrated Circuits Symposium (RFIC), San 
Francisco, CA, 2016, pp. 122-125. 
2. Xiang Yi, Zhipeng Liang, Chirn Chye Boon, “A 20.2-57.1 GHz inductor-less divide-by-4 divider 
chain,” presented at the Progress in Electromagnetic Research Symposium (PIERS), Singapore, Nov. 
2017, to be published.  
3. Xiang Yi, Kaituo Yang, Zhipeng Liang, et al., "A 65nm CMOS carrier-aggregation transceiver for 
IEEE 802.11 WLAN applications," 2016 IEEE Radio Frequency Integrated Circuits Symposium 
(RFIC), San Francisco, CA, 2016, pp. 67-70. 
 

-----
