Abstract 
This thesis presents the study of different types of control strategies for the hybrid energy 
storage system (HESS) in the standalone and grid-connected mode of operation. The control 
strategies studied are mainly focused on the effective power-sharing between the battery and 
supercapacitor (SC) based HESS, tight DC link voltage regulation with the improved 
dynamic response and simple controller design. 
 
Over the years, DC microgrids have been widely investigated due to their flexibility in 
integrating the renewable energy sources (RESs) and energy storage systems (ESSs). Among 
various types of RESs, photovoltaic (PV) and wind are the most popular ones. The main issue 
with these RESs is their intermittent nature. The power generation from these RESs is easily 
affected by the varying environmental conditions. Thus, the microgrid requires ESSs to 
provide a continuous supply to the load demand. ESSs are the major part of the microgrids. 
ESSs complement the supply and demand mismatch and ensure the stability of the microgrid. 
In recent days, ESSs with the different operating characteristics are combined to form a 
HESS in the microgrid applications. In the HESS, the characteristics of the various ESSs can 
be effectively and efficiently utilized. The effective utilization of the HESS in the microgrid 
depends on the control techniques used to control the power flow from the HESS. Thus, the 
effective control method is of utmost importance for maintaining the power balance in the 
system with the load and generation variation. 
 
The faster joint control strategy is proposed for the control of the battery and SC based HESS 
in the DC microgrid applications.  To maintain the system power balance, the HESS handles 
the excess or deficit power. In general, the battery supports the slow varying power demand 
and the SC supports the transient power demand. The low pass filter (LPF) is used to obtain 
the slow varying power demand and the transient power demand from the total power 
demand. In conventional control methods, the power decomposition entirely depends on the 
performance of LPF. It also neglects the uncompensated power from the battery system. In 
the proposed control method, the uncompensated power from the battery system is diverted to 
the SC system. This improves the dynamic response of the overall system and provides a 
faster DC link voltage restoration during a step change in the PV generation and the load 
demand.  

-----
The model predictive control (MPC) method has been intensively studied for the industrial 
process control for more than four decades. During the last decade, the MPC method has been 
successfully applied in many power electronics topologies. The conventional MPC method 
uses a discrete system model and the complex optimization algorithms to solve the control 
objectives in the defined time period. This approach requires large computational resources to 
obtain optimal control parameters. This hinders its utilization for the system which requires 
the faster control action with the less computational burden. The enumeration-based model 
predictive control (EMPC) methods are generally used to solve these issues. The EMPC 
methods require less computational resources and can be easily implemented in the digital 
signal processor (DSP) control boards. The enumeration-based model predictive current 
control (EMPCC) method for the battery and SC based HESS in the DC microgrid 
applications is proposed. The proposed control method is divided into two parts: (i) DC link 
voltage control loop. (ii) Inner current control loop. The DC link voltage control loop is based 
on the PI controller which generates the total current references for the HESS. The inner 
current control loop is based on EMPCC method and it regulates the total current references 
for the HESS. The advantages of the proposed method are less computational complexity, 
simple controller design, direct manipulation of control signals without the pulse width 
modulation (PWM) modulator and faster dynamic response.  
 
The study of the dynamic evolution control (DEC) method for the HESS control is also 
presented in this thesis. The DEC method uses the pre-defined trajectory known as evolution 
path to minimize the error state in the system. The error state is the difference between the 
system output and its reference value. A new power sharing approach for the HESS is also 
introduced to generate the current references for the battery and SC. The control equation of 
the DEC method consists of a predictive term and a feed-forward term which regulate the 
HESS current and DC link voltage. The performance of the DEC over the conventional PI-
based control methods are compared based on simulation and experimental studies. The 
results obtained show a better dynamic performance compared to the conventional PI based 
control method. The proposed control method is simple to implement and requires less 
computational resources compared to the traditional discrete MPC methods. 
 
The operation of HESS in the grid-connected mode is another aspect of the research work 
presented in this thesis. A new energy management system (EMS) is proposed for the 
integration and effective utilization of the HESS in the grid connected operation. The main 

-----
advantages of the proposed EMS and control method are effective power sharing between the 
different ESSs, faster DC link voltage regulation to PV generation variations and load 
disturbances, dynamic power-sharing between the battery and the grid based on the battery 
state of charge (SOC), reduced rate of charge/discharge of the battery current, improved 
power quality features in AC grid and seamless mode transitions.  
 
To validate the proposed control methods and EMS a hardware prototype is built. The 
experimental case studies for the proposed control methods are carefully designed and 
implemented using the dSPACE 1103 real-time controller platform. The simulation and 
experimental results for the proposed control methods are compared with the existing control 
methods to verify the effectiveness of the proposed methods regarding faster control response 
and the complexity of the control method. The short-term and long-term experimental case 
studies are conducted.  They demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed control methods 
compared to that of the conventional control methods. 
 
 

-----
List of Publications 
The Author’s contribution in this Ph.D thesis are summarised in the following publications: 
 
Journal Publications: 
1. U. Manandhar, N. R. Tummuru, S. K. Kollimalla, A. Ukil, H. B. Gooi and K. Chaudhari, 
"Validation of Faster Joint Control Strategy for Battery and Supercapacitor Based Energy 
Storage System," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 65, no. 4, pp. 3286 
3295, Apr 2018. 
2. U. Manandhar, A. Ukil, H. B. Gooi, N. R. Tummuru, S. K. Kolimalla, B. Wang and K. 
Chaudhari, "Energy Management and Control for Grid Connected Hybrid Energy Storage 
System under Different Operating Modes," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. PP, no. 
99, pp. 1-1. 
3. U. Manandhar, B. Wang, H. B. Gooi and A. Ukil, "An Enumeration-Based Model 
Predictive Current Control for Battery and Supercapacitor Energy Storage Systems in DC 
Microgrids," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics. (Under review) 
4. U. Manandhar, B. Wang, A. Ukil and H. B. Gooi, "A Dynamic Evolution Control Based 
Power Sharing Method for Hybrid Energy Storage System," in IET Power Electronics. 
(Under review) 
 
Conference Publications: 
1. U. Manandhar, B. Wang, A. Ukil, H. B. Gooi, N. R. Tummuru and S. K. Kollimalla, "A 
New Control Approach for PV System with Hybrid Energy Storage System," 43rd Annual 
Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (IECON), Beijing, China, pp. 2739 
2743, Oct 2017. 
2. U. Manandhar, A. Ukil, H. B. Gooi, N. R. Tummuru and S. K. Kollimalla, "A Low 
Complexity Control and Energy Management for DC-Coupled Hybrid Microgrid with Hybrid 
Energy Storage System,"  IEEE PES General Meeting (PESGM), Chicago, USA, pp. 1-5, Jul 
2017. 
3. U. Manandhar, A. Ukil, S. K. Kollimalla and H. B. Gooi, "Application of HESS for PV 
system with modified control strategy," IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies – Asia 
(ISGT ASIA), Bangkok, Thailand, pp. 1-5, Nov 2015. 
 
 

-----
