ABSTRACT 
Device reliability remains as a very challenging issue in the state-of-the-art complementary 
metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (CMOS, MOSFET). One of the most 
challenging reliability issues in CMOS devices is bias-temperature instability (BTI). Previous 
studies on SiON and high-k HfO2 gate dielectrics on large area devices reveal that transient 
oxide-charge trapping/detrapping by switching oxide traps (SOTs) due to dynamic bias-
temperature stress (BTS), which usually treated as a parasitic effect, may play a role on the gate 
oxide long term reliability. The “fast” measurement used in the studies surfaces the inconsistency 
with the prediction of classical explanation for the negative BTI (NBTI) using reaction-diffusion 
(R-D) model. The studies show that the transformation of SOTs into a more permanent form, 
which is also known as recoverable-to-permanent (R-to-P) transformation, occurs when the 
exerted thermal cum electrical stress surpasses a particular threshold while cyclical behavior of 
switching oxide-charge trapping and detrapping is observed when the employed thermal cum 
electrical stress is below this certain threshold. These observations indicate that the generation of 
permanent defects is susceptible due to the possible change in oxide structure by the applied 
thermal cum electrical stress. Gate current increasing concurrently with the NBTI-induced hole 
trapping transformation implies the outset of the bulk oxide trap generation is due to the hole-
trapping conversion. However, electron trapping transformation is not always accompanied by 
an increase in the gate current.  
 
An intriguing trend was observed in the examination on the frequency dependence of dynamic 
positive BTI (PBTI) on HfO2/TiN gate n-MOSFETs. The investigation discovers that the 

-----
shallow-to-deep electron traps transformation as the PBTI stress progresses exhibits an 
unexpected positive dependence on the gate frequency, i.e. the fraction of shallow-to-deep 
electron trap conversion increases with frequency, causing more permanent electron traps at 
higher gate frequency in the frequency study range of 1 mHz to 1 MHz. 
 
The R-to-P conversion of switching oxide traps in large-area CMOS device was revealed in the 
previous studies. The continuing scaling of CMOS leads to the considerable interest in the 
studies of small-area devices. The research on the drain current recovery trends on the small-area 
SiON/polysilicon gate p-MOSFETs subjected to recurring NBTI stress/relaxation cycling 
discloses direct experimental evidence of hole trap R-to-P transformation deduced from past 
research on large-area devices. The emission times of hole traps are normally presumed to be 
time-invariant, but the results from this study show the otherwise. Analysis from the 
experimental evidence shows that the hole traps emission times can increase since the defect 
sites can be evolved into more structurally stable configurations.  
 
Past study reported that the gate current (stress-induced leakage current, SILC) increasing 
concurrently with the NBTI-induced hole trapping transformation implies the germ of the bulk 
oxide trap generation is due to the hole-trapping conversion. The study on the correlation 
between hole trap R-to-P transformation and SILC generation in big-area devices unfolds that 
both sequels showcase eminently similar power-law time exponent, temperature dependence and 
activation energy. The revelation of a kink at temperature of 125 oC heralding a reduction in the 
activation energy from the low-to-high temperature region in both R-to-P conversion and SILC 

-----
generation implies strong connection and a common degradation mechanism between these two 
effects. Also, investigation on time-dependent of drain and gate current shift, ∆Id and ∆Ig 
respectively, in small-area devices subjected to NBTI stress reveals the positive and negative 
correlations as well as uncorrelated behavior between these two effects. In addition to the 
observation of a typical single-step Id recovery accompanied by Ig change, RTN-like fluctuation 
in Id was detected to be accompanied by RTN-like fluctuation in Ig as well, especially the 
relatively significant  ∆Ig of ~40% accompanying the ∆Id  which evidently indicate the 
implication of bulk oxide defects. Activation and deactivation mechanisms of a bulk oxide trap 
as a trap-assisted tunneling (TAT) center are discussed based on the ab-initio oxygen-vacancy 
defect simulation. 
 
The impact of voltage-accelerated stress (VAS) on hole trapping at operating condition was 
examined. The charge-capturing activity of time-zero oxide traps can be altered by VAS. After 
the application of VAS, the time-zero oxide traps can become either more active or less active in 
hole capturing during operating condition, suggesting that the trap atomic structure may have 
modified by the VAS. Also, after a relaxation (idle) for a period of time, the charge-capture 
activity of the oxide traps may resume to the pre-VAS state. More intriguingly, the drain-current 
recovery step amplitude of a single oxide charge emitted by a SOT can be altered by VAS. The 
stress-induced change of trap-switching behaviour and alteration of drain-current degradation 
under operating condition should be taken into account in the reliability evaluation of small-area 
devices given the remarkably increasing impact of oxide charge trapping on device channel 
conduction as the device size reduces. 

-----
