ABSTRACT 
Since smart computing has become more ubiquitous and distributed, there is a growing need for 
human machine interface (HMI) that supports a new interaction paradigm. As the media of human-
machine interaction, HMI is the platform for cognition and communication between human and 
machine, and the approach for HMI is information transmittal. For machine to recognize and 
understand the information in the process of human-machine interaction, data is collected and 
translated by various systems, which mainly contain vision, audition and tactility. A good HMI 
design can improve the performance, the usability, and the security for Electric Vehicles (EV). 
Electroencephalogram (EEG) provides a new interacting methodology for HMI in EV without 
body movement, which reduces the risks of distraction for drivers while driving. By placing 
multiple noninvasive sensing electrodes on a human scalp to record real-time EEG signals, 
individual brain activities can be transmitted and classified into specific commands for EV 
application. Moreover, some neurological disorder, such as epileptic seizure, can be recorded and 
observed by the EEG-based HMI, to trigger the emergency braking system in EV to prevent any 
potential traffic accidents. Considering the ease of use, dry electrodes instead of gel-based wet 
electrodes are selected for monitoring the real-time brain activities in wearable HMI. A typical 
EEG-based HMI contains three segments: 1) analog front-end interface; 2) analog-to-digital 
convertor (ADC) and 3) digital processing unit. As the first step of EEG recording, a wearable 
multi-channel EEG front-end interface is proposed in this design. 
In order to create a large database for signal analysis and machine learning, multi-channel 
recording is necessary. With the increasing number of recording channels, hardware cost is 
considered as one of key parameters for EEG recording. The time division multiplexing (TDM) 
technique is engaged for hardware saving, and hence maintaining low power consumption based 
on the proposed two stage cascaded structure during long term monitoring.   
In consideration of the fact that EEG signals (α, β, θ and δ waves) are mainly located around the 
baseband (from 0.5 Hz to 100 Hz), which suffer from the detriment of flicker noise, a low noise 
analog front-end interface is necessary for ensuring good signal quality. The chopping stabilization 
which is one of the most effective methods for noise reduction, separates the 1/f noise in baseband 

-----
from the original EEG signal, and dramatically decreases the noise within the frequency range 
from 0.5 Hz to 100 Hz.  
EEG signal, due to its small amplitude (1 μV~100 μV), can be easily ruined by large common-
mode interference. Hence, Common Mode Rejection Ratio (CMRR) is a critical parameter for the 
EEG front-end interface. In order to improve the CMRR, some circuit-level techniques such as 
driven right leg (DRL), digital-assisted DRL, common-mode feedback (CMFB) and common-
mode feed-forward (CMFF) are explored for the cancellation of the common-mode voltage. 
Comparing with current techniques for CMRR boosting, a system-level innovation of the 
Chop/Mux structure is proposed to achieve a system-level CMRR of more than 80 dB at 50 Hz, 
which is among the highest reported to-date.  
 

-----
