Optimization and Scheduling for a Large Scale Urban 
Transportation System involving Human Factors 
Abstract 
The striking growth of cities in developing countries prevents a well-planned urban 
development. Many urban areas are suffering from serious traffic congestions, pollution, noises 
and traffic fatalities. Limited financial resources and physical space cannot guarantee the 
feasibility of the infrastructures expansion, which leads to seek other alternative solutions to 
address the above problems. This thesis focuses on solving the above issues by designing 
adaptive traffic signal controller for both vehicles and pedestrians and developing optimal 
tactics and strategies for public-transport operations incorporating passenger loading process.  
 
Traffic congestion, as one of the most serious issues mentioned above, has made bad impacts 
on the mobility and accessibility in many cities. The reasons responsible for this phenomenon 
can be attributed by many factors: urban population increase, economic growth (rapid increase 
of private cars, unreasonable city development), poor road infrastructure, poor traffic 
management, car accidents and some special event gatherings. In view of the increasing traffic 
congestion in urban road networks, many models have been developed to analyse the dynamics 
of traffic flow at different levels, e.g., Cellular Automata Models, Headway distribution Models, 
Lighthill-Whitham-Richards(LWR)-type Models and Cell Transmission Models (CTM). 
Traffic signal control, as one of the most essential strategies to tackle this challenge, has been 
applied and studied over the past several decades. Adaptive traffic signal strategies have 
demonstrated the efficiency on fluctuated demands by tuning the signal plans on-line based on 
the real-time input data and its internal optimization model. However, existing traffic signals 
generally aim to minimize vehicle delay, but the pedestrian delay is seldom considered. This 
is reasonable when pedestrian volume is low, however, in CBD areas where large number of 
pedestrians interfere with vehicular traffic, optimizing traffic signals only for vehicles may not 
make good use of crosswalks and potentially create more conflicts between pedestrians and 
vehicles. Therefore, we develop the model to provide Traffic Light Scheduling for Pedestrian-
Vehicle mixed-flow Networks (TLSPVN). Firstly, a macroscopic pedestrian “hopping” model 
at an intersection is developed, which inserts mixed logical constraints into the flow dynamic 
model and is capable of reflecting the changing capacity during one time interval resulted from 
the crosswalk length and pedestrian relatively lower speed. By considering drivers’ 
psychological response to traffic signal states, a network-based vehicle flow model is adopted. 
Both pedestrian performance and vehicle performance are integrated together via the weighted 
sum method, which could be translated into monetary values for economic considerations or 
delay costs for efficiency evaluation. By connecting with the commercial simulator, VISSM, 
experiment studies are carried out to illustrate the usefulness of our proposed solution. 
Nevertheless, the increase of the efficiency could be possible to alleviate the safety of the 
system. According to Traffic Police accident statistics, 22% of the pedestrian fatal accidents 
occurred at signalized pedestrian crosswalks. More than 30% of the total pedestrian fatalities 
can be attributed to the illegal crossing behaviour. Therefore, it is essential to design traffic 
signals considering both efficiency and safety. Pedestrian Flashing GREEN (FG), a time 
interval for pedestrians on crosswalks to safely finish crossing before the next phase occurs, 
may fail to clear the crosswalk in the allotted time, due to significant pedestrian non-compliant 
behaviour. In this manner, probability of pedestrian-vehicle exposures increases when non-

-----
compatible vehicle flows are released at the next immediate phase. We address this issue by 
presenting a traffic signal control strategy for urban traffic networks that aims to minimize 
vehicle traveling delay (increase efficiency) as well as pedestrian crossing risk (increase safety). 
Specifically, we formulate a mathematical model for pedestrian crossing on a signalized 
intersection, whose arrival flow and leaving flow of each waiting zone are separately described 
in order to make the model more realistic, then the duration of Dynamic All RED phase (DAR) 
is obtained according to the number of illegal-crossing pedestrians via pedestrian crossing time 
model. By integrating with the vehicle network model based on CTM, a Pedestrian-Safety-
Aware Traffic Light Control Strategy (PSATLCS) is developed with the aim to reduce both 
traffic congestions and pedestrian-crossing risks. Secondly, both the genetic algorithm (GA) 
and the harmony search algorithm (HS) with the repairing mechanism are proposed in order to 
meet the requirement of the real-time signal switching. Thirdly, efficiency on vehicle side is 
evaluated by comparing the before-mentioned adaptive signal strategy for TLSPVN problem 
with our proposed PSARLCS. Based on the Traffic Conflict Technique (TCT), one method 
used to evaluate the road risk, the safety cost under two strategies is also illustrated. Moreover, 
we establish quantitative standards for selecting signal strategies between the efficiency and 
safety in an economic evaluation framework, which provides referable suggestions for 
transportation professionals to make proper decisions on phase pattern selection. 
 
Besides the traffic light control, public transportation, another effective solution to address the 
above issues, has also been studied for several decades due to its larger ridership and 
sustainability on economic efficiency, environmental justice and social equity. Especially for 
Singapore, a densely-populated small city-country with a total population of 5.6 million, and 
its main island has a land area of 648 km2 spreading about 42 km in length and 23 km in 
breadth. Clearly, developing an efficient public transport system is definitely indispensable in 
order to solve serious traffic issues under such limited land supply and exploding transport 
demands. There are three major layers in public transportation system: strategic planning, 
tactical planning and operational planning. Strategic planning refers to the transit network 
design, which determines the bus line, bus stop location and types of buses. Tactical planning 
aims at improving the level of public service and reducing the operational cost. Operational 
planning refers to the short-term decision. In this thesis, we address the bus dispatching system 
from the tactical and operational level, with the aim to design transit timetable and schedule 
corresponding vehicles. Meanwhile, we take the stop-skipping control strategies into account 
and allow the bus-platoon dispatching to guarantee an efficient bus service. We successively 
developed two models, in which the model I only considers dynamics on buses and stops while 
the model II also incorporates the bus loading process at each stop. By introducing the bus 
loading process, the function which describes the relationship between the bus dwelling time 
and the number of loading passengers, is adopted from the literature. Besides the objectives in 
the model I with the aim to minimize passenger delay and bus vacancy, model II also tries to 
minimize the bus unpunctual delay due to the loading process. Both models consider a ring-
route bus line with the stop demand dynamics and the bus demand dynamics involved. Also, 
passengers’ perceived delay is firstly formulated by a nonlinear function, which describes the 
dissatisfaction of the passengers who haven’t boarded after their expected bus arrival time. 
Moreover, we compare our method with the traditional fixed schedule and the optimized non-
platoon schedule, and the simulation results illustrate the efficiency of our method. 
 
Overall the thesis proposes three major problems faced by the researchers and policy makers 
in the intelligent transportation field. The suggested frameworks and guidelines can be used to 
help to develop an integrated, multi-modal system in order to provide citizens a more smart, 
safe and sustainable transportation experience.  

-----
Publication Lists 
 
Journal Publications 
Accepted 
1. Y. Zhang, K. Gao and Y.C. Zhang, R. Su. "Traffic light scheduling for pedestrian-vehicle 
mixed-flow networks". IEEE transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. June 2018.  
Submitted 
1. Y. Zhang, Y.C. Zhang, R. Su. "Pedestrian-safety-aware traffic light control strategy for 
urban traffic congestion alleviation". IEEE transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. 
Major revision, March 2019.  
Prepared 
1. Y. Zhang, R. Su. "Optimal platoon dispatching strategies for bus operations considering 
passenger loading dynamics".  
 
Conference Publications 
Accepted 
1. Y. Zhang, Y. C. Zhang, R. Su. "Optimization of vehicle delay and drivers’ unhappiness at a 
signalized network: a multi-objective approach". 15th IEEE International Conference on 
Control and Automation (ICCA19). Edinburgh, Scotland, 2019.  
2. Y. Zhang, R. Su. "Pedestrian phase pattern investigation in a traffic light scheduling problem 
for signalized network". 2nd IEEE Conference on Control Technology and Applications 
(CCTA18). Copenhagen, Denmark, 2018.  
3. Y. Zhang, R. Su, and Y.C. Zhang. "A macroscopic propagation model for bidirectional 
pedestrian flows on signalized crosswalks". 56th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control 
(CDC17). Melbourne, Australia, 2017.  
4. Y. Zhang, R. Su, K. Gao, Y. C. Zhang. "Traffic Light Scheduling for Pedestrians and 
Vehicles". 1st IEEE Conference on Control Technology and Applications (CCTA17). Hawaii, 
USA, 2017.  
Submitted 
1. Y. Zhang, R. Su, Y. C. Zhang. "A dynamic optimization model for bus schedule design to 
mitigate the passenger waiting time by dispatching the bus platoon". 58th IEEE Conference on 
Decision and Control (CDC19). Nice, France, 2019.  
 
Collaborated works with others (Accepted) 
Journals 
1. K. Gao, Y. Zhang, Y. C. Zhang, R. Su, P.N. Suganthan. "Meta-heuristics for Bi-objective 
urban traffic light scheduling problem". IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation 
Systems. August. 2018.  
2. Y. C. Zhang, R. Su, G.G.N. Sandamali, Y. Zhang, R. Su, C. Cassandras, L. Xie. "A 
Hierarchical Heuristic Approach for Solving Air Traffic Scheduling and Routing Problem with 
a Novel Air Traffic Model". IEEE transactions on Intelligent Transportation System. 
September. 2018.  

-----
3. A. Sadollah, K. Gao, Y. C. Zhang, Y. Zhang, R. Su. "Management of traffic congestion in 
adaptive traffic signals using a novel classification-based approach". Engineering Optimization. 
August. 2018.  
Conferences 
1. Y. C. Zhang, R. Su, C. Sun, Y. Zhang. "Modelling and traffic signal control of a 
heterogeneous traffic network with signalized and non-signalized intersections". 1st IEEE 
Conference on Control Technology and Applications (CCTA17). Hawaii, USA, 2017.  
2. Y. C. Zhang, R. Su, G. G. N. Sandamali, Y. Zhang. "A Hierarchical Approach for Air Traffic 
Routing and Scheduling". 56th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC17). 
Melbourne, Australia, 2017.  
3. K. Gao, Y.C. Zhang, Y. Zhang and R. Su. "A Meta-heuristic with Ensemble of Local Search 
Operators for Urban Traffic Light Optimization". The 2017 IEEE Symposium Series on 
Computational Intelligence (SSCI17). Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, 2017.  
 

-----
