Abstract 
Time series forecasting has obtained significant academic and industrial interests nowadays, 
which finds its significance in various application fields, including power system related 
applications (electric load, wind power and solar irradiance forecasting, etc.), as well as financial 
market related applications (stock price, exchange rate and electricity price forecasting, etc.). 
Many statistics based machine learning models have been proposed to obtain accurate results for 
time series forecasting up to present. The methods can be divided into two categories: linear 
models (such as auto-regressive moving average) and non-linear models (such as artificial neural 
network and support vector machine). However, due to the highly nonlinear characteristics of 
real world time series signals which caused by various influencing factors, it is very difficult to 
ensure the performance of machine learning models. Deep learning and ensemble methods are 
possible solutions to this problem.  
 
This thesis mainly focuses on the state-of-the-art ensemble learning methods and deep learning 
models for both power system and financial market related time series forecasting. The 
development of time series forecasting is introduced, and a brief review of existing algorithms is 
also given. Motivated by the attractive advantages of ensemble learning, two deep learning based 
ensemble methods are presented: (i) ensemble method composed of deep belief networks and 
support vector machines, (ii) empirical mode decomposition (EMD) based ensemble deep 
learning model. The performance of the proposed methods is evaluated by real world time series 
datasets. On the other hand, the ensemble methods based on fast learning models are also 
investigated in this thesis, such as decision tree ensembles and random vector functional link 
(RVFL) neural network based ensemble models. Specifically, a novel decomposition method 
composed of discrete wavelet transform and EMD is combined with incremental RVFL for 
electric load forecasting. Finally, the advantages and potential future developments of deep 
learning and ensemble methods are discussed. 

-----
