Abstract 
     Wireless power transfer (WPT) technology is gaining its popularity in recent years, 
which is largely motivated by extensive research work. It is attractive as the power and 
data transmission can be done through the magnetic field between two coils without the 
usage of power wires. It offers the convenience of charging or operating a device without 
having to plug-in. For example, electronic devices such as cell phones, smart watches and 
electric vehicles could be charged without utilizing power cord as in the conventional 
way. WPT technology is advantageous to various applications with different 
specifications and constraints. Besides wireless charging, it contributes greatly to RFID 
and medical fields as well, such as wireless capsule endoscopy for early detection 
screening, biomedical implants like cochlear implants, RFID animal tag for prevention of 
infectious disease, etc. The emerging WPT technology has become an appealing 
approach in industrial applications and it is expected to continually grow in near future.  
     In this research, the focus is on the power management integrated circuits (PMIC) 
design of the wireless power receiver in an inductively WPT system. Several designs are 
proposed to improve the performance of the receiver for the applications in the range of 
1mW-100mW of output power and operate in an ISM band of 125 kHz, such as for RFID 
animal tag or biomedical implants. In a wireless power receiver, a rectifier and a voltage 
regulator are crucial blocks for AC-DC conversion and DC-DC regulation respectively. 
Hence, an unbalanced biasing comparator design is proposed to enhance the power 
efficiency of the rectifier block. A buck regulator with a proposed energy-efficient pulse 
frequency modulation (PFM) controller is implemented as well. Measurement results 
show that the rectifier achieves a peak efficiency of 85.92% while the buck regulator 
achieves a peak efficiency of 91%.  
     However, the two-stage design restricts the overall power efficiency of the receiver. In 
order to improve the power efficiency, a one-stage AC-DC regulator is proposed by 
introducing a dual-mode concept. As a result, the power losses incurred has been reduced 
from two-stage to one-stage, improving the power efficiency substantially. Fabricated in 
0.18µ
m CMOS process, the measured peak efficiency is 93.48% in an output power 
range of 2mW-80mW. 

-----
     To maximize the circuits’ performances of embedded applications, more than one 
supply voltage is often required in a system. Hence, a new architecture which is able to 
rectify and regulate multiple outputs concurrently in a single-stage is developed. In 
addition, a multi-mode controller is also proposed to control the multiple switches of the 
structure efficiently. As a proof of concept, a prototype has been validated for the tri-
mode dual-output design. Nonetheless, the concept is applicable and extendable to N 
outputs. The measured peak power efficiency of the tri-mode dual-output design is 91.68% 
in an output power range of 3.8mW to 114mW.  
     Lastly, a single-stage voltage doubler regulator is proposed. The previous designs 
operate with a criterion that the input voltage has to be greater than output voltage. To 
solve the limitation, a voltage doubler structure is utilized. By embedding the regulation 
function in the voltage doubler structure, the voltage rectification and regulation can be 
achieved at an output voltage that is twice of the input voltage amplitude.  
 
 
 

-----
Publication List 
Journals: 
1. Qiong Wei Low, Mi Zhou, Liter Siek, “A Single-Stage Direct-Conversion AC-DC 
Converter for Inductively Powered Application,” submitted to IEEE Transactions on 
Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems. – under revision 
2. Mi Zhou, Zhuochao Sun, Qiong Wei Low, Liter Siek, “Fast transient response DC-DC 
converter with start-up in-rush current control,” IET Electronics Letter 2016. 
 
Conferences: 
1. Qiong Wei Low, Liter Siek, Mi Zhou, “A high efficiency rectifier for inductively power 
transfer application,” IEEE International Conference on Very Large Scale Integration 
(VLSI-SoC), Oct 2015. 
2. Qiong Wei Low, Mi Zhou, Liter Siek, “Performance analysis on active rectifier 
structures for inductively powered application,” International Symposium on Integrated 
Circuits (ISIC) 2016. 
3. Mi Zhou, Qiong Wei Low, Liter Siek, “A high efficiency synchronous buck converter 
with adaptive dead-time control,” International Symposium on Integrated Circuits (ISIC) 
2016. 
 

-----
