Cloud Detection and Attenuation Modelling in Tropical Region 
Feng Yuan, Yee Hui Lee & Yu Song Meng 
Cloud plays a significant role in both the Earth's climate system and ground-to-
space radio communication system. In this thesis, various types of data are collected from 
different kinds of instruments including radiosonde, ceilometer, dual-polarization weather 
radar, Ka-band beacon receiver, weather stations and whole sky imagers. By processing 
and analyzing the data collected from these instruments, the study of various aspects of 
the cloud including cloud vertical structure, melting layer of rain clouds, and the impact 
of cloud on the satellite communication for tropical region is performed.   
In this research, a new method for the detection of cloud vertical structure and 
cloud occurrence for tropical region is proposed. This proposed model [1] is based on the 
fact that the measured water vapor pressure is larger than the derived critical water vapor 
pressure at the same level for cloud to be present. The estimated cloud vertical structure 
using the proposed method is compared with the Salonen and Uppala model, the 
ceilometer data and two kinds of meteorological observation. The proposed model shows 
a higher accuracy of prediction of the cloud vertical structure as compared to the existing 
SU model for tropical region. 
Next, a method [2] for the detection of the melting layers for the stratiform and 
convective rain clouds using dual-polarization radar data is proposed. By studying the 
difference between these two types of rain events, it is found out that among the three 
radar measurements; reflectivity; differential reflectivity; and cross-correlation 
coefficient; the cross-correlation coefficient is the best indicator for convective rain 
melting layer detection in the tropical region, whereas the reflectivity is sufficient for the 
detection of stratiform rain melting layer. In addition, it has been observed that due to the 
nature of convective rain events, their raindrops can move upwards to above 6 km as 
recorded by the radar data. This height is even higher than the top boundary of the 
melting layer.  
For satellite communication applications, it is important to be able to differentiate 
cloud events from rain events along the link. Several cloud detection methods are applied 
in order to accurately detect the clouds for cloud attenuation estimation [3]. In this 
research, beacon data are collected and processed to differentiate clouds from rain and 
then to study cloud attenuation in the tropical region. The cloud attenuation results are 
compared to the ITU-R model for Ka band frequency. It was concluded that at Ka band, 
the maximum cloud attenuation is about 4 dB. This shows that the ITU-R model is 
derived for temperate regions and tends to underestimate the cloud attenuation in the 
tropical region. 

-----
Therefore, in this research work, a new cloud attenuation model [4] is proposed 
for the tropical region. This model incorporates precipitable water vapor (PWV) value to 
estimate integrated liquid water content, and then determine the cloud attenuation. The 
estimated cloud attenuation using this new model is compared with the ITU-R model and 
the cloud attenuation derived from Ka-band beacon data. One of the main advantages of 
using PWV data from GPS for cloud attenuation modelling is its increase in temporal 
resolution as compared to the use of radiosonde data. 
In this thesis, we have proposed a model to detect cloud vertical structure for 
tropical region, studied the melting layer for both stratiform and convective rain clouds, 
done statistical analysis of cloud attenuation on a Ka-band satellite link and also proposed 
a high temporal resolution method for cloud attenuation calculation in tropical region. 
We believe that the algorithms and techniques developed in this thesis will assist the 
remote sensing and satellite communication community with a better understanding of 
clouds. 
 
 
 
References 
[1] F. Yuan, Y. H. Lee, Y. S. Meng and J. T. Ong, "Water Vapor Pressure Model for 
Cloud Vertical Structure Detection in Tropical Region," in IEEE Transactions on 
Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 54, no. 10, pp. 5875-5883, Oct. 2016. 
[2] F. Yuan, Y. H. Lee, Y. S. Meng and J. T. Ong, "Characterization of Dual-polarization 
Radar Data for Stratiform and Convective Melting Layer Detection in Tropical Region," 
submitted in IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing. 
[3] F. Yuan, Y. H. Lee, Y. S. Meng, J. X. Yeo and J. T. Ong, "Statistical Study of Cloud 
Attenuation on Ka-Band Satellite Signal in Tropical Region," in IEEE Antennas and 
Wireless Propagation Letters, vol. 16, no., pp. 2018-2021, 2017. 
[4] F. Yuan, Y. H. Lee, Y. S. Meng and J. T. Ong, "High resolution ITU-R Cloud 
Attenuation Model for Satellite Communications in Tropical Region," submitted in IEEE 
Transactions on Antenna and Propagation. 

-----
