ABSTRACT 
 
Control of loudspeaker arrays have been studied in the past few years for a wide variety of 
applications. One of such application is to control a pre-defined listening environment to 
achieve audible and inaudible zones so as to gain a personalized and immersive sound 
experience. One existing feasible approach to achieve soundfield control is to compute time- 
or frequency-domain coefficients for each loudspeaker such that the generated sound signals 
at the pre-defined listening locations can achieve the desired sound energy level for the 
superimposed sound signals. Several methodologies have recently been proposed to achieve a 
desired soundfield within a listening zone of interest. These methods include maximizing the 
energy ratio between energies of audible and inaudible zones, maximizing energy difference 
between two zones and maximizing the energy ratio while maintaining a desired sound 
energy level in the zone of interest. Although the above methods provide directional sound to 
the zone of interest, they cannot guarantee precise control of the soundfield within the 
audible/inaudible regions. As a result, undesired fluctuations of the soundfield or even sound 
distortion may occur. To address the issue, least squares (LS) methods along with 
regularisation techniques such as ordinary cross validation (OCV), generalized cross 
validation (GCV), the L-curve and the truncation method have also been proposed to achieve 
a desired sound energy level in a pre-defined zone of interest. Although these LS methods 
can improve the performance of soundfield control system, direct application of these 
methods will however introduce regularisation error (RE). 
 
In this thesis an iterative LS based algorithm is proposed. This algorithm utilizes the round-
off error (ROE) as a regularisation parameter for the ill-conditioned system matrix over the 
zone of interest. Unlike existing LS methods, the proposed approach estimates the system 
matrix inverse iteratively and identifies the best estimate of the matrix inverse. In addition, 
the proposed algorithm does not accumulate significant ROE when the system matrix is ill-
conditioned. Instead, the accumulated ROE is taken as a regularisation parameter which is 
evaluated iteratively to achieve a good trade-off between matrix inverse accuracy and the 
amount of RE. To achieve the above, a matrix sparseness criterion is proposed to evaluate the 
accuracy of the inverse estimate. This measure is subsequently used to terminate the iteration 
process. Furthermore, incorporating this criterion to the proposed method of estimating the 
loudspeaker coefficients, one can take into account the trade-off between the estimation error 

-----
(during the convergence of the matrix inverse estimate) and the ROE (caused by 
mathematical computation when the system is ill-condition). The proposed algorithm is 
further extended to the scenario when the misplacement error (MPE) is present in the sound 
control system. It is found that the proposed algorithm can compensate and minimize the 
effect of MPE on the generated soundfield by exploiting the characteristics of the MPE when 
computing the regularisation parameter. Simulation results show that the proposed algorithm 
can outperform other LS-based regularisation methods in terms of normalized output error 
(NOE) in the presence or absence of MPE. 

-----
