This thesis focuses on Boron Nitride (BN) and Carbon Nitride (CN) thin film nanostructuring. Inspired 
from its carbon counterpart, BN and CN nanocrystal orientation can be tailored in order to align 
themselves in the vertical direction. This material “texturing” at the nanoscale opens new interesting 
properties in materials and the synthesis and properties of textured BN and CN is studied in this work. 
Firstly, a new growth method based on High Power Impulse Magnetron Sputtering (HiPIMS) was 
created in order to growth BN thin films: A Lanthanum Hexaboride (LaB6) target was reactively 
sputtered in argon and nitrogen gas. Under specific growth conditions, dependant on temperature 
and sputtering power density, h-BN nanocrystals with the basal planes aligned in the vertical direction 
were obtained. The growth mechanism involving the change in alignment to produce vertically 
ordered BN (voBN) was studied and attributed to the compressive stress applied on the film during 
growth, where the maximum amount of stress would produce the best alignment. This novel 
crystalline structure displayed an improvement in thermal conductivity (TC) in the through plane 
direction by a factor 3 (at 5.1 W.m-1.K-1) compared to a randomly aligned BN film (1.7 W.m-1.K-1), and 
it was attributed to the vertical texturing, which facilitates the phonon transport in the through film 
direction. 
In order to verify the assumption that the phonons move preferentially along the basal planes in the 
vertical direction, additional thermal characterization was performed using 3 omega, ascertaining an 
anisotropy in thermal transport with an in plane TC of 0.26 W.m-1.K-1, while the through plane TC was 
found to be 16 times greater at 4.26 W.m-1.K-1. Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations was used to 
successfully re-enact the TC anisotropy observed experimentally, attributing the difference to the 
many interfaces between crystalline and amorphous regions and the preferential phonon propagation 
along the vertically ordered crystalline basal planes. COMSOL Multiphysics simulations were used to 
quantify the performance of voBN at preventing heat cross talk, allowing an increase by a factor 4 in 
hot spot density compared to SiO2, without inducing any temperature increase. 

-----
Finally, a similar nanostructuring tuning was accomplished with CN, using reactive HiPIMS of a carbon 
target in argon and nitrogen atmosphere. The phonon response depending on the film structure was 
studied using Transient Grating Spectroscopy (TGS) to locally excite the material and study its thermal 
response. Pure carbon films, together with CN films where produced with amorphous and vertically 
ordered structure in order to compare their phonon response. Vertically ordered CN (voCN) exhibited 
and enhanced through plane TC compared to a-CN with a greater value by a factor 10 (1.5 W.m-1.K-1). 
This increase in TC can be linked to both the increased graphitic structure of the films, which facilitates 
the phonon transport as well as the vertical ordering of the planes helping to focus the phonon 
propagation in the through plane direction. 

-----
