Abstract
The advent of enabling smart grid technologies has resulted in the prolifera-
tion of heterogeneous power generation networks. In this context, the concept of
microgrids has gained popularity in recent years due to their ability to integrate
renewable energy sources with the power system. As such, many industrial units
are increasingly displaying characteristics similar to grid-connected microgrids.
Moreover, large industrial parks such as Singapore’s Jurong Island can also be
considered as grid-connected microgrids with multiple energy streams. Conse-
quently, the traditional day-ahead scheduling (unit commitment) problem solved
in power systems needs to account for the increasingly heterogeneous nature of
the generators. Furthermore, the deregulation of modern electricity markets
has also introduced concepts such as demand side management which need to
be accounted for by the scheduling problem. As such, there exists a need to for-
mulate optimization models for modern energy systems which can account for
the heterogeneity in the generation and the flexibility in the load. This becomes
even more complex from the perspective of developing eco-industrial parks due
to the presence of multiple energy streams.
This thesis primarily aims at developing optimal scheduling models for the
participation of energy systems in the electricity market. The models devel-
oped in this thesis can be included as a part of an energy management system
package. The energy systems in this thesis consider heterogeneous power gen-
eration sources including conventional combined cycle power plants, renewable
energy sources and diesel generators. Apart from these, the presence of flexible
elements such as battery energy storage systems, thermal energy storage sys-
tems, interruptible loads and schedulable loads make the energy management
problem non-trivial.
The energy system models in this thesis are developed
using a component-wise approach to account for the intricacies involved in the
operation of each individual component. The utility of the optimal scheduling
problem formulations proposed in this thesis is primarily demonstrated through
the prism of load management scenarios.
This thesis is broadly divided into four parts. The first part focuses on the
development of accurate optimal scheduling models for the components which
constitute the energy systems considered in the later chapters of the thesis. The
hybrid systems based mixed logical dynamical modelling framework is used to
develop optimal scheduling models of the gas turbines, steam turbines, boilers,
diesel generators, battery energy storage systems, thermal energy storage sys-
tems and interruptible loads used in this thesis. The optimal scheduling models
of the gas turbines, steam turbines and boilers include the power trajectories
followed by these components while undergoing the hot, warm and cold start-up
processes. The shutdown power trajectories are also included in the scheduling
1

-----
models of the gas turbines, steam turbines and boilers. A detailed treatment of
the modelling of an exemplar conventional fossil fuel based generating unit using
the mixed logical dynamical framework is provided. The conventional generator
scheduling model is subsequently used in a typical self-scheduling problem and
a unit commitment problem involving five generators.
The second part of this thesis proposes a shipyard energy management sys-
tem (SEMS) to optimize the cost of operating a typical shipyard drydock. The
SEMS comprises three modules - load forecasting, contracted capacity optimiza-
tion and optimal scheduling. The load forecasting module uses artificial neural
networks (ANN) to generate short-term and medium-term load forecasts. His-
torical load demand data and ship arrival schedules are provided as inputs to
the ANN. The inclusion of the ship arrival schedule as an input to the ANN
enhances the accuracy of the load forecast.
The optimal scheduling module
minimizes the electricity cost incurred by the drydock operator. The optimal
scheduling problem includes a pump scheduling optimization model which mini-
mizes the uncontracted capacity cost incurred by the drydock operator. Illustra-
tive case studies are performed using data from a local shipyard to demonstrate
the efficacies of the proposed load forecasting and optimal scheduling modules.
The third part of the thesis enhances the features of the optimal scheduling
module proposed in the aforementioned SEMS. The microgrid considered in this
context comprises diesel generators, battery energy storage systems, renewable
energy sources, flexible pump loads and interruptible loads. A two-stage energy
management system architecture is proposed wherein an optimal, day-ahead
scheduling problem similar to the SEMS is solved in the first stage.
Subse-
quently, the results from the first stage are used to solve an optimal power flow
problem in the second stage. This is done to account for the network losses and
to verify the feasibility of the optimal schedule generated in the first stage with
respect to the network constraints. Thereafter, the two stages are coordinated
using an iterative procedure. The utility of the proposed optimization model is
demonstrated using illustrative case studies.
The final part of this thesis proposes a detailed optimal scheduling model for
an exemplar multi-energy system comprising combined cycle power plants (each
constituted by one gas turbine and one steam turbine), battery energy storage
systems, renewable energy sources, boilers, thermal energy storage systems,
electric loads and thermal loads. The proposed model considers the detailed
start-up and shutdown power trajectories of the gas turbines, steam turbines
and boilers. Furthermore, a practical, multi-energy load management scheme
is proposed within the framework of the optimal scheduling problem. The pro-
posed load management scheme utilizes the flexibility offered by system compo-
nents such as the flexible electrical pump loads, electrical interruptible loads and
a lumped flexible thermal load to reduce the overall energy cost of the system.
The efficacy of the proposed model in reducing the energy cost of the system
is demonstrated in the context of a day-ahead scheduling problem using four
illustrative scenarios.
2

-----
