ABSTRACT 
 
Wireless communications is ubiquitous nowadays. Global information exchange between 
users and/or machines becomes very common. Mobile devices such as smart phones, iPAD and 
laptops are used for these purposes. With the increasing demand for high speed wireless 
communication system to support consumers’s needs for real time streaming of high definition 
(HD) video and fast file transfers, high data rate is required in the radio systems. In addition, the 
radio system must be compact, low cost and low power for especially for commercial wireless 
application. 
Six-port receivers have been attracting attention at the mm-wave frequencies. They offered 
many advantages as compared to the conventional receiver architecture at the mm-wave 
frequencies in terms of bandwidth, size and power consumption. Six-port receiver consists of 
three building blocks namely six-port correlator, power detection and baseband recovery. The 
six-port correlator is the fundamental building block of a six-port receiver. However, it suffers 
from non-ideal effects such as amplitude imbalance and phase imbalance contribute by its 
building blocks.  
In this thesis, analysis had been done on non-ideal effects such as the amplitude and phase 
imbalance of the two of the literature six-port correlators. Through the analysis, two novel six-
port correlators were designed and sent for fabrication. Eventually, the two proposed six-port 
correlators were simulated together with the power detectors and amplifiers to demonstrate its 
intended operation as six-pot receivers. 
 
 
 

-----
List of Publications 
 
Journal 
 
P. S. Chew, K. Ma, Z. H. Kong, and K. S. Yeo, "Miniaturized Wideband Coupler for 60-GHz 
Band in 65-nm CMOS Technology," IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 28, 
pp. 1089-1091, 2018.  
 
P. S. Chew, Z. H. Kong, B. Liu, C. C. Boon, "A Compact Rat-race Coupler for 60-GHz Band in 
40-nm CMOS Technology," IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters (To be 
submitted) 
 
P. S. Chew, Z. H. Kong, B. Liu, C. C. Boon, " Two Six Port Correlators Utilizing Multi-layer 
Hybrid Coupler, Rat Race Coupler and Wilkinson Power Divider with Complete Coverage of 
60GHz Band," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques (To be submitted) 
 
Conference 
 
P. S. Chew, K. S. Yeo, K. Ma, and Z. H. Kong, "A 57 to 66 GHz novel six-port correlator," in 
2015 IEEE 11th International Conference on ASIC (ASICON), 2015, pp. 1-4.  
 

-----
