ABSTRACT 
This thesis studied the RF SOI technology used in RF Front-end Module (FEM) today to 
explore its potential for power amplifier (PA) enablement. Conventional power MOSFETs are 
first fabricated to identify typical issues of such devices on SOI. Different body contacts were 
studied and compared, and the adoption of an under-source body contact involving our novel 
device architecture and process optimizations have resulted in an EDNMOS device suitable for 
use as a PA in modern FEM systems. This device achieves a competitive Ron of 1.6Ω-mm and 
39GHz fT with a breakdown voltage of 15V. 
The adoption of an EDNMOS architecture with under-source body contact however limits the 
performance of the RF switch through further thickness scaling of silicon. A variable silicon 
thickness process was introduced to do selective thinning of the active silicon on which the RF 
switch device is fabricated, while the EDNMOS is fabricated on the global silicon thickness. 
Characterization of the RF switch device shows the performance improvement obtained from 
thinning down the active silicon, as well as a competitive Ron-Coff of 120fs and harmonics 
comparable with the state-of-the-art RF SOI technologies today. 
Load-pull testing is carried out on our novel EDNMOS device to obtain its PA performance. 
Results shows that key challenges related to floating-body effects on SOI has been averted, and 
a 2mm power cell is able to achieve 20dB gain, 77% maximum PAE and 25dBm saturated 
Pout measured at 2.4GHz. At 4.5GHz, the gain reduces to 16.5dB and PAE drops to 55% due 
to frequency limitations of the device. However, the frequency range of the power cell can be 
extended when cascoded with a LV high fT NMOS, achieving a 20dB gain with 75% PAE 
measured at 4.5GHz. These results are very respectable and promising to be used in the design 
of modern FEM systems today.  
 

-----
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS 
[1] R. T. Toh, S. Parthasarathy, T. Sun, S. Q. Zhang, P. R. Verma, C. S. Zhu, V. S. Nune, 
J. S. Wong, M. Govindarajan, Y. K. Yoo, K. W. Chew, D. S. Ang, "A 300mm foundry 
HRSOI technology with variable silicon thickness for integrated FEM applications." 
IEEE 
Int. 
Electron 
Devices 
Meeting, 
2016, 
pp. 
2.4.1-2.4.4. 
doi: 
10.1109/IEDM.2016.7838031 
[2] R. T. Toh, S. Parthasarathy, S. Zhang, M. Govindarajan, J. S. Wong, K. W. Chew, L. 
Andia, D. S. Ang, “A CMOS-SOI Power Amplifier Technology Using EDNMOS for 
Sub 6GHz Wireless Applications”, IEEE RFIC, 2018. 
[3] R. T. Toh, D. S. Ang, S. Parthasarathy, J. S. Wong, H. K. Yap, S. Zhang, “RF 
Performance of a Highly-Linear Power Amplifier EDNMOS Transistor on Trap-Rich 
SOI”, IEEE Electron Devices Letters, 2018 (accepted for publication) 
LIST OF PATENTS 
[1] R. T. Toh, G. H. See, S. Q. Zhang, P. R. Verma, “Extended drain metal-oxide-
semiconductor transistor”, U.S. Patent 9,899,514, issued Feb 20, 2018. (patent for the 
EDNMOS device architecture) 
[2] R. T. Toh, G. H. See, S. Q. Zhang, P. R. Verma, “Integrated circuits using silicon on 
insulator substrates and methods of manufacturing the same”, U.S. Patent 9,922,868, 
issued Mar 20, 2018. (patent detailing the silicon thinning process to fabricate the RF 
switch device on thinned silicon) 
 

-----
