Abstract 
      Conventional AlGaN/GaN High Electron Mobility Transistors (HEMTs) have been 
proven to be a strong competitor in both high voltage and high frequency applications 
resulting from the intrinsic material properties of GaN such as large bandgap, high 
electron mobility, high electron saturation velocity and high thermal conductivity. In the 
past decades, GaN HEMTs have emerged as one of the hottest research topics and 
intensively studied. The performance of conventional AlGaN/GaN HEMTs have been 
improved significantly and continuously in the past decades, such as high output power, 
high operation frequency and low noise figure. Recently, a novel heterostructure with a 
thin layer of InAlN on top of GaN have been demonstrated to further improve the high 
frequency performance of GaN HEMTs. Benefiting from the unique properties of 
InAlN/GaN hetrostructure such as very thin top barrier thickness, high electron density 
and lattice match, the high frequency performance of GaN HEMTs have been pushed to 
the next level. On the other hand, there are still some critical challenges limiting the 
applications of GaN HEMTs.  
    On key issue is that most of the high frequency results, especially those above 200 
GHz, were reported from devices grown on SiC substrates. SiC has the advantages of 
small lattice mismatch to GaN eplilayers, very high resistivity and thermal conductivity. 
Thus, GaN HEMTs grown on SiC can achieve higher RF performance than those grown 
on Si. However, GaN HEMT on SiC is not cost-effective and is only available in smaller 
sizes ( 6 inch) which make it less attractive to be adopted commercially.  
  To reduce the cost of GaN HEMTs, Si substrates have attracted increasing interest in 
recent years, not only in power electronics applications but also in RF applications. 
Significant efforts have been made on improving the epitaxial quality of GaN on Si 
substrates as well as the device fabrication technology. As a result, the performance of 
RF GaN HEMTs on Si has improved significantly. However, the high frequency 
performance of GaN HEMTs on Si still lags behind their counterparts on SiC. The best 
reported AlGaN/GaN HEMT on Si only exhibited a fT of 176 GHz with for a gate length 
of 80 nm. 

-----
     Another drawback is the poor linearity performance of deeply scaled GaN HEMTs. 
Linearity is an important parameter for GaN HEMT to be applied in communication 
system. Modern multi-tone and digital telecommunication system need high-linearity 
amplifiers. GaN HEMT is expected to maintain high operation frequency at high gate 
bias to support its application for large signal RF operation. However, the conventional 
GaN HEMTs show poor linearity characteristics, manifested by a non-flat 
transconductance (gm) (or fT, fmax) versus gate bias and drain current. After reaching its 
maximum point, gm and fT, fmax decrease drastically with the increasing gate bias.  
linearity of GaN transistors ultimately limits the power density and efficiency of these 
devices in many applications, as the operating point of the device typically needs to be 
backed-off to meet the linearity specifications. In fact, as the operating frequency 
increases into the mm-wave range by shrinking the gate length, the linearity is expected 
to degrade even further. 
    This thesis is mainly focused on these two issues. Novel approaches are employed to 
resolve them and much improved device performance were obtained. The major 
contributions of the thesis are listed as below. 
(1) The limiting factors in the device performance are described. In order to suppress 
the increase of the intrinsic delay caused by the degradation of the gate 
modulation efficiency, a thin InAlN top barrier is applied instead of conventional 
AlGaN top barrier. Sub-100 nm gate was developed using electron beam 
lithography (EBL) technology to minimize gate induced intrinsic delay. Parasitic 
charging delay was minimized benefiting from the short source-to-drain distance 
down to 300 nm and low contact resistance Rc of 0.2 Ω.mm. Maximum fT of 250 
GHz was obtained in a 40-nm gate device, which is the highest among any other 
GaN HEMTs demonstrated on Si substrate previously. Surface passivation effects 
on DC and RF performance were also investigated. 
(2) The mechanism of the poor linearity performance of the gm and fT at high gate 
bias was investigated.  A novel planar-nanostrip GaN HEMTs structure using ion 
implantation technology was developed to improve the linearity performance and 
maintain fT at a high level without introducing too much gate parasitic capacitance. 

-----
The fabrication process was described in details including As ion implantation for 
isolation application, nanostrip-channel formation using different approaches. 
Moreover, the planar-nanostrip device also showed much improved maximum 
drain current Idmax up to 2.6 A/mm, which is close to the theoretical limit.  Also, 
device geometries including gate length, line-to-space ratio of the nanostrip-
channel and gate-to-source distance have been studied. These results do not only 
identify the origin of the non-linear performance in GaN HEMTs, but also 
illustrate the direction of design improvement of RF GaN HEMTs for high 
linearity application. 
(3) A Planar nanostrip-channel Al2O3/InAlN/GaN MISHEMTs on Si was 
demonstrated. A thin layer of oxide between the metal gate and the thin InAlN 
barrier and form a metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) gate in the Planar 
nanostrip-channel GaN HEMT, gate leakage current was reduced and thus 
increase the gate voltage swing and drain current swing. The results show that the 
Planar nanostrip-channel Al2O3/InAlN/GaN MISHEMTs is able to work at up to 
Vg = +4 V and the linearity performance was further improved. The effects of 
Al2O3 gate insulator on device threshold voltage Vth, gm and fT have been 
investigated through theoretical analysis and experimental results study. 
 

-----
