1 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Among the various sensing techniques to measure current, current transformers (CTs) 
are still widely used in most of the applications. The output current of a CT is inversely 
proportional to the turn-ratio of secondary and primary windings; and therefore higher 
number of secondary turns is preferred for better current sensing sensitivity. The maximum 
induced output voltage across the burden resistor in the secondary circuit is directly 
proportional to operating frequency, maximum flux density of the magnetic core, cross 
section area of the magnetic core and the number of turns in the secondary winding. Besides 
transforming primary current to secondary current, the CT itself consumes a portion of the 
primary current for magnetizing current, eddy current loss and hysteresis loss. These currents 
cause magnitude and phase errors in the measurement.  Magnetic cores with larger cross 
sectional area are preferred to prevent saturation of the core and obtaining higher secondary 
induced voltage. Commercially available CTs are usually bulky, rigid and heavy. The 
motivation of this thesis is to explore the use of thin and highly flexible magnetic core for CT 
design.   
The major contribution of this thesis describes a comprehensive design guide, from 
analysis to fabrication of an ultra-thin and highly flexible CT. The proposed CT is flexible 
enough to wrap around an electrical cable for current sensing without taking much space.  
The circuit model of the CT takes into consideration of the nonlinearity of the flexible 
magnetic core based on the Jiles-Atherton (JA) hysteresis model, which is validated 
experimentally. A combined errors compensation method for the current sensing 
measurement is also proposed so that the CT can also be used for high current measurement.  
 
Also, wireless senor network (WSN) forms the backbone to realize Internet of Things 
(IoT). Autonomous devices with energy harvester are in demands. Among the available types 
of energy, magnetic field arounds a power cable can be tapped for such purposes. Flexible 
CT can also double up as an electromagnetic energy harvester to energize wireless 
transceivers or any other low power sensor actuator device. Since priority is given on 
harvesting maximum possible power, flexible magnetic material with higher saturation flux 
density is required to optimize design analysis. The harvested alternating current is rectified 
and voltage level is converted to drive a Bluetooth low energy (BLE) transceiver directly. 

-----
2 
 
 
Excess energy is stored in a coin-cell Li-ion battery to use when primary energy source is 
unavailable. This thesis presents an overall development of autonomous online-condition 
monitoring systems to monitor current flow in power cables for energy management, safety 
and protection by integrating flexible CTs for sensing and energy harvesting. 

-----
