Abstract 
Frequency-selective scattering of light can be achieved by metallic nanoparticle’s 
localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR). And this property may find application 
in transparent projection display: ideally, specially designed metallic nanoparticles 
dispersed in a transparent matrix only selectively scatter red, green and blue light and 
transmit the visible light of other colors. In this thesis, general properties of LSPR is 
first reviewed. Then, selective scattering achieved by spherical core-shell structure of 
Ag@TiO2 (core@shell) is presented. Since metallic nanoparticle’s size is comparable 
to free electrons’ mean free path in bulk metal, size effect of metallic nanoparticle on 
optical scattering and absorption is investigated. After that, selective scattering 
properties of silver and gold nanocubes placed on dielectric substrate is studied. Finally, 
the possibility to achieve ultra-sharp scattering peaks (i.e., strong frequency-selectivity 
of scattering) by combining metallic nanoparticles with gain materials is discussed. 
Future work includes finding ways to experimentally realize metallic nanoparticles with 
ultra-sharp scattering peaks, and lowering its cost. 
 
Publication list 
[1] 
Y. Ye, T. Chen, J. Zhen, C. Xu, J. Zhang, and H. Li, "Resonant scattering of green light 
enabled by Ag@TiO2 and its application in a green light projection screen," Nanoscale, 
vol. 10, pp. 2438-2446, 2018. 
[2] 
Y. Ye, T. P. Chen, Z. Liu, and X. Yuan, "Effect of Surface Scattering of Electrons on Ratios 
of Optical Absorption and Scattering to Extinction of Gold Nanoshell," Nanoscale research 
letters, vol. 13, pp. 299-299, 2018. 
[3] 
Y. Ye, R. Liu, Z. Song, Z. Liu, and T. P. Chen, "Sharp selective scattering of red, green, and 
blue light achieved via gain material's loss compensation," Optics Express, vol. 27, pp. 
9189-9204, 2019/03/18 2019. 
[4] 
Y. Ye and T. P. Chen, "Selective Scattering of Blue and Red Light Based on Silver and Gold 
Nanocubes," ECS Journal of Solid State Science and Technology, vol. 8, pp. R51-R57, 
January 1, 2019 2019. 
 

-----
