Low-Profile Vertically-Polarized Omnidirectional Antennas  
for V2X Communications 
 
PhD Candidate: LIU Ankang (G1400181H) 
 
Abstract 
 
For many such wireless systems as vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication, vertically-polarized 
omnidirectional antennas are desired for the full coverage over the horizontal plane.  For these 
applications, monopole antenna and its variations are the primary choices. The height of the-state-of-
the-art monopole based antenna is still too high for many applications. The main objective of this 
study is to innovate new low-profile vertically-polarized omnidirectional antenna designs with wider 
bandwidth and higher gain for better V2X communications. Based on literature survey, circular patch 
antenna (CPA) and monocone antenna are two popular and promising candidates for this study. 
Therefore, much of the study is devoted to the innovative designs based on these two antenna types.   
The first design is a low-profile circular-patch antenna with over 3 dB gain enhancement in the 
horizontal plane for the emerging DSRC (Dedicated Short Range Communications) application. To 
further increase the omni-directional gain in the horizontal plane, six groups of magnetic dipole-like 
resonators are introduced around a shorted circular patch-ring antenna. These resonators help to 
guide the wave along the horizontal surface. In addition, the number of resonators in each group can 
be adjusted to control radiation patterns in the horizontal plane. 
The second design is a wideband circular patch antenna with omni-directional gain enhancement in 
the horizontal plane. The gain enhancement over 1 GHz bandwidth is achieved by introducing low-
profile I-shaped loading structures without increasing the thickness of antennas. The effective 
refractive index of the new structure is larger than that of conventional substrate with same material, 
therefore the new structure behaves as a lens to concentrate the energy and enhance the omni-
directional radiation performance. In addition, the proposed antenna design can achieve a fractional 
bandwidth of 19% by combining the multiple resonant frequencies of the antenna structures.  
The third design is an ultrawideband low-profile monocone antenna with dielectric loading. The 
operating modes of the proposed antenna are different from those of conventional monocone 
antenna while similar to those of the circular patch antenna. The first mode is studied with the aid of 
the epsilon-negative transmission line. To further improve the matching properties of the monocone 
antenna, an innovative dielectric structure is introduced. The dielectric loading can effectively change 
the impedance of the monocone antenna and provide additional freedom for increasing the fractional 
bandwidth.  
In summary, three new low-profile vertically-polarized omnidirectional antenna designs are presented 
in the thesis with theoretical study, computer-aided design and optimization, prototype fabrication, 
measurement verification, and analysis study. The thesis is concluded by pointing out a few 
recommendations for future investigations. 

-----
