1 
 
AN APPROACH FOR CIRCUIT DESIGN OPTMIZATION BASED 
ON COMPLEXITY CONSIDERATIONS 
 
Abstract 
Optimizing circuit trade-offs is a highly challenging task for any design team. This 
challenge is further exacerbated with the additional design complexity of integrating 
multiple circuits. Today, with the increasing demand for newer wireless communication 
products, design teams face a shorter time-to-market (TTM) for every generation of their 
new products and each product requires major improvement in wireless capability. Hence, 
it is important for the design teams to design circuits with complexity in mind. A design 
methodology divided into architecture complexity, component complexity and 
discretional complexity are proposed. A novel benchmarking figure-of-merit, complexity 
factor (CF), was formulated and proposed for the architecture complexity. A simulated 
application of a goal, gain optimization, demonstrated and revealed that a reduction of up 
to 400% in the normalized complexity factor (NCF) could enhance the gain performance 
by approximately up to 40% for ultra-high frequency (UHF) applications. As the number 
of variables to be permuted is very high for the power amplifier (PA) blocks from circuit 
down to the process level, it is treated as a black box in the analysis but the next topology 
complexity step addressed this. Two topologies were proposed; a cascode 2-stacked 
EDNFET and SGNFET and a cascode 4-stacked resistor-ladder SGNFET PA. Both of 

-----
2 
 
them achieved a near 20dBm output power and approximately 60% efficiency on the test-
chips measurements, which demonstrated that the 2-stacked EDNFET and SGNFET 
topology with a reduction in stack height is a potential candidate for a reduced difficulty 
and complexity DPA design. In the discretional complexity step, we proposed a 
broadside coupler designed on 65nm CMOS process delivering a S21 and S31 of almost -
4dB designed with 0.4dB of over-coupling. The spread of the phase difference is less 
than 2.2° from 57GHz to 66GHz, which is only a 2.4% margin deviation. The broadside 
coupler has a reduced complexity compared with a Wilkinson power divider with a 
broader bandwidth and we implemented this into a DPA with a gm3 cancellation bias 
scheme tapping on its intrinsic linearization property, without adding external circuity to 
increase the complexity of the overall circuit but at the same time, improve its linearity 
by 6-8dB compared to a DPA optimized for power and more than 10dB compared with a 
balance PA with a similar structure. 
 
 

-----
3 
 
Publications 
Aaron Tan, Rui Tze Toh, Yongfu Li, Alfred Lim, Zhi Hui Kong, Kaixue Ma, Kiat Seng 
Yeo, “A Methodology To Evaluate Circuit Complexity: Doherty Power Amplifier As A 
Case Study” Submitted 
Rui Tze Toh, Shyam Parthasarathy, Aaron Tan, Amit Kumar Sahoo, Jen Shuang Wong, 
Shaoqiang Zhang, Madabusi Govindarajan, Kok Wai Chew, “Power Amplifier 
Topologies Using EDNMOS On CMOS-SOI For Sub-6 GHz Wireless Applications” 
Pending Submission 
Aaron Tan, Kaixue Ma, Kiat Seng Yeo, Zhi Hui Kong, “A Compact 60GHz CMOS 
Doherty Power Amplifier,” published in IEEE Asia Pacific Wireless Communication 
Symposium (APWCS), 2015 
A. Tan, K. Ma, Z. H. Kong, and K. S. Yeo, "A Gm3 cancellation bias for 60GHz Doherty 
Power Amplifier," in 2015 International SoC Design Conference (ISOCC), 2015, pp. 
195-196. 
Alfred Lim, Aaron Tan, Zhi Hui Kong, Kaixue Ma, Kiat Seng Yeo, “A 2.4-Ghz 
Transformer-Based Class-E Power Amplifier” Submitted 

-----
