Abstract
Data center storage architectures face rapidly increasing demands for data volume and
Quality of Service (QoS) requirements today. Hybrid storage systems have turned out to
be one of the most popular choices in fulfilling these demands. A mixture of various types
of storage devices and structures enables architects to address performance and capacity
concerns of users within one storage infrastructure. Nowadays, the hybrid storage system
that utilizes SSD as the performance tier or cache and HDD as the main storage is still
the main stream in data center system. With the performance and price gaps between
different storage devices, the hybrid storage architecture will continue to be important in
the future storage system design. There are lots of architectures, such as tiered storage,
cache storage, etc. and policies, such as cache policy, replacement policy, etc. in the
hybrid storage system, it is difficult to use a general mathematical model to capture
all the features of the storage architecture. Therefore, we combine the simulation and
modeling with cross verification to design an intelligent storage system with suitable
caching algorithm.
In the hybrid storage system, besides the performance requirement, the size of ca-
pacity the storage system can provide is also important. Shingled Magnetic Recording
(SMR) drives have unique features different from conventional disk drives, e.g., append-
only (sequential) write, indirect address mapping and garbage collection. Batch process
is also designed to fully utilize the sequential write property to improve the SMR drive
performance. The selection of different system parameters and policies affects the sys-
tem performance and capacity efficiency. However, there is no dedicated analytical tool
available so far to guide the parameter and policy selection. Thus, an analytical model
of SMR drive is built based on queuing model to fill the gap, and simulation is further
ii

-----
conducted to validate the model and check the effects of different drive parameters. We
illustrate the similarity of the analytical and simulation results, and show that our tool
can be utilized as the guide of the SMR drive design
In an SMR drive, due to its append-only write property, the data update is usually
handled through a log-structured manner, which causes old data to become invalid and
dirty. Garbage collection (GC) methods are therefore introduced to clean the dirty data
to release the disk space. However, the necessity of GC process performed remains an
issue, as the process may increase the power consumption and downgrade the perfor-
mance. Thus our emphasis in this paper is placed on the decision of the process under
different workload conditions and system settings for overall power consumption reduc-
tion and disk space saving. An analytical model is built to study various scenarios, and
a simulator is further developed to verify the correctness of the model.
The SMR drive plays an important role in the hybrid storage system. To evaluate and
compare the performance of different types of hybrid storage systems, a flexible hybrid
storage system simulator is designed and developed to simulate various kinds of hybrid
storage architectures and algorithms. The architectures include SSD tiering method, SSD
caching method and SSD hybrid method, and the algorithms include different types of
cache policies, such as read-only and write-back, and different kinds of hot data identifica-
tion and data migration policies. The performance of these architectures and algorithms
are evaluated and compared under different types of workload environment, and the re-
sults can be utilized as a guide for future hybrid storage system design, and a benchmark
for analyzing the other types of hybrid storage systems, which are the extension of these
basic storage architectures.
In a hybrid storage system, the caching policies, such as hot/cold identification and
data migration flow controlling, play an important role that affects the system perfor-
mance. Based on the storage system simulator, we can easily design and improve the
caching policies inside a hybrid storage system to improve the system performance. In
particular, the migration size is one of the key factors. Fixed size of data migration gener-
ally cannot provide good performance when the workload properties change significantly.
We design a hybrid caching algorithm based on fuzzy control and decision tree which
iii

-----
can adaptively adjust the data migration policies according to the workload properties.
The fuzzy rules can be automatically generated through the training process of decision
tree classification and regression. From the simulation, we show that the hybrid disk
performance can be improved up to 20% for dynamically changed workload.
Meanwhile, traditional hybrid storage system only combines the performance tier
with faster access speed and higher cost and the capacity tier with larger capacity and
lower cost becomes popular to meet the increasing requirements of data volume and QoS.
However, these storage systems do not fully utilize the sequential access properties and
the non-limited write cycles of HDDs. This paper reveals a new approach to configure
HDD and SSD in a novel hybrid structure such that the advantages of both sides can be
fully utilized, i.e., the fast IO access of SSD (in particular for random access) and the
non-limitation of write cycles of HDD. By carefully designing the disk data stripes, the
(sequential) performance requirement for HDDs and SDDs can be matched in a certain
degree. Therefore, they can be used in the same array/pool without considering the
high/low tiers or fast/slow cache. Due to the performance match of sequential access in
general, this design is more suitable for SMR drives (or CMR with MBC). This structure
can then be further applied to RAID and EC schemes.
iv

-----
