Abstract  
Developing efficient evolutionary algorithms attracts many researchers due to the fact that 
numerous real-world applications can be stated as optimization problems. Hence, many 
evolutionary algorithms were successfully developed to handle the challenges in solving 
optimization problems with complex landscapes. Differential evolution is one of the efficient 
and powerful evolutionary algorithms for solving complex optimization problems with diverse 
characteristics. In this research, we study differential evolution variants that can be successfully 
applied to solve numerical optimization problems, and develop new efficient differential 
evolution algorithms. The main objective is to develop new improved differential evolution 
algorithms which are able to solve challenging optimization problems efficiently when 
compared to other existing state-of-the-art algorithms. We develop new improved differential 
evolution algorithms by introducing new ideas such as: hybridizations that combine the 
strengths of different canonical algorithms, proposed new ensemble control parameter settings 
and an improved crossover strategy that is used to build a suitable coordinate system during 
the search. To validate the performance of the developed algorithms, different challenging test 
suites from the recently developed IEEE-CEC benchmarks were used. Those benchmarks are 
among the widely used benchmarks which have attracted many researchers to use for testing 
their developed algorithms. Each of them constitutes problems that are tested on different 
dimensionalities with a various set of problem features and characteristics, including 
ruggedness, noise in fitness, multimodality, ill-conditioning, interdependence and non-
separability. Moreover, a variety of real-world optimization problems taken from diverse fields 
are used as well. The results statistically affirm the efficiency of the proposed approaches to 
obtain better results compared to state-of-the-art algorithms from the literature.  
 
 
 
 
 

-----
List of publications: 
1. Noor H. Awad, Mostafa Z. Ali, Rammohan Mallipeddi, Ponnuthurai N. Suganthan, 
An Improved Differential Evolution Algorithm using Efficient Adapted Surrogate 
Model for Numerical Optimization. Inf. Sci, vols. 451–452, pp. 326-347, 2018.  
2. Noor H. Awad, Mostafa Z. Ali, Ponnuthurai N. Suganthan, Ensemble of parameters in 
a sinusoidal differential evolution with niching-based population reduction, Swarm 
and Evolutionary Computation, vol. 39, pp. 141-156, 2017.  
3. Noor H. Awad, Mostafa Z. Ali, Ponnuthurai N. Suganthan, Edward Jaser, A 
decremental stochastic fractal differential evolution for global numerical optimization, 
Inf. Sci., vol. 372, pp. 470-491, 2016.  
4. Noor H. Awad, Mostafa Z. Ali, Ponnuthurai N. Suganthan, Ensemble sinusoidal 
differential covariance matrix adaptation with Euclidean neighborhood for solving 
CEC2017 benchmark problems, in Proc. IEEE Congr. Evol. Comput., CEC 2017, pp. 
372-379.  
5. Noor H. Awad, Mostafa Z. Ali, Ponnuthurai N. Suganthan, Robert G. Reynolds, Ali 
M. Shatnawi, A novel differential crossover strategy based on covariance matrix 
learning with Euclidean neighborhood for solving real-world problems, in Proc. IEEE 
Congr. Evol. Comput., CEC 2017, pp. 380-386 
6. Noor H. Awad, Mostafa Z. Ali, Ponnuthurai N. Suganthan, Robert G. Reynolds, An 
ensemble sinusoidal parameter adaptation incorporated with L-SHADE for solving 
CEC2014 benchmark problems, in Proc. IEEE Congr. Evol. Comput., CEC 2016, pp. 
2958-2965.  
7. Noor H. Awad, Mostafa Z. Ali, Ponnuthurai N. Suganthan, Edward Jaser, Differential 
evolution with stochastic fractal search algorithm for global numerical optimization, 
in Proc. IEEE Congr. Evol. Comput., CEC 2016, pp. 3154-3161. 
 
 

-----
