Abstract 
 
In recent years, distributed energy resources (DER) systems have increasingly played 
an important role in electric power distribution system. Nevertheless, they also 
concurrently introduce new characteristics to the distribution system, such as bi-
directional power flows, unstable power supply, unintentional islanding and voltage 
profile issues. The evolvement of distribution networks necessitates rapid and accurate 
distribution network monitoring. Phasor Measurement Unit (PMU) has contributed 
greatly to power system state estimation because of its ability to directly measure 
voltage and current phase angle. However, so far PMUs have been used almost 
exclusively in transmission systems monitoring. 
 
This thesis discusses the application of PMUs in distribution networks, with a focus on 
their optimal PMU placement (OPP) . Many OPP algorithms have been well 
documented. However, most of them are designed and tested on transmission networks, 
and very studies have been conducted on distribution networks. Distribution networks 
have very different topology from transmission networks, and hence there is a need to 
study how the PMUs can be optimally placed. In this thesis, we have proposed 
algorithms that take advantage of radial topology of distribution networks, to solve the 
OPP problem in an exhaustive manner yet without much computational burden. The 
proposed algorithms have been tested on several networks. Results show that for similar 
scale networks, distribution networks take much less time than transmission networks 
using the proposed exhaustive algorithms. The computational burden of this method 
dramatically decreases due to the radial topology of distribution networks. 
 
Besides the above mentioned exhaustive method, integer linear programming has been 
investigated in this thesis. Compared to exhaustive algorithm, integer linear 
programming is much faster in solving the OPP problem. However, it can only give 
limited solutions, while in practice it is possible that there are multiple solutions that 
can satisfy the given constraints. Identifying all alternative solutions enables the 

-----
decision maker to examine them and choose the overall best solution. This thesis also 
introduces an OPP method using integer linear programming algorithm to identify all 
alternative optimal placements that satisfy certain constraints. The proposed method 
uses integer linear programming to identify multiple solutions, where the network buses 
are classified into three categories based on those multiple solutions. By further 
analyzing certain buses which belong to one of the three categories, the proposed 
method is able to identify all alternative optimal solutions. This method is efficient in 
determining the solution when applied to large-scale power system. 
 
State estimators applied in transmission networks usually use positive sequence model. 
On the other hand, distribution networks usually contain unbalanced loads. In order to 
deal with imbalance in distribution networks, a three phase state estimator is also 
developed and tested in this thesis. We have shown that assuming there are sufficient 
number of PMUs to make the system observable, the state estimator is linear and can 
be solved in a non-iterative manner. 
 
 

-----
Publications 
[1] X. Chen, K. J. Tseng and G. Amaratunga, "State estimation for distribution systems 
using micro-synchrophasors," 2015 IEEE PES Asia-Pacific Power and Energy 
Engineering Conference (APPEEC), Brisbane, QLD, 2015, pp. 1-5. 
[2] Xuebing Chen, Tengpeng Chen, King Jet Tseng, Yuhao Sun and G. Amaratunga, 
"Customized optimal 𝜇PMU Placement method for distribution networks," 2016 IEEE 
PES Asia-Pacific Power and Energy Engineering Conference (APPEEC), Xi'an, 2016, 
pp. 135-140. 
[3] X. Chen, T. Chen, K. J. Tseng, Y. Sun and G. Amaratunga, "Hybrid approach based 
on global search algorithm for optimal placement of 𝜇 PMU in distribution 
networks," 2016 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies - Asia (ISGT-Asia), 
Melbourne, VIC, 2016, pp. 559-563. 
[4] Y. Sun, X. Chen, S. Yang, Rusli, K. J. Tseng and G. Amaratunga, "Micro PMU based 
monitoring system for active distribution networks," 2017 IEEE 12th International 
Conference on Power Electronics and Drive Systems (PEDS), Honolulu, HI, 2017, pp. 
518-522. 
[5] T. Chen, Y. S. E. Foo, K. V. Ling, and X. Chen, “Distributed state estimation using 
a modied partitioned moving horizon strategy for power systems," Sensors, vol. 17, no. 
10, p. 2310, 2017. 

-----
