FORMATION CONTROL OF MULTI-ROBOT
SYSTEMS IN OBSTACLE ENVIRONMENTS
YUANZHE WANG
School of Electrical & Electronic Engineering
A thesis submitted to the Nanyang Technological University
in fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy
2018

-----
Abstract
Multi-robot system has wide applications in both civil and military fields, due to
its high efficiency for task completion and robustness with respect to robot failures.
Formation keeping, which is one of the main objectives for multi-robot control,
has been investigated extensively in the past decade, resulting in a large variety of
methodologies. However, most of the existing approaches are subject to certain lim-
itations when implemented for addressing real formation control problems, mainly
due to additional constraints introduced, such as sensor limitations, obstacle and
inter-robot collision avoidance in unknown environments, connectivity maintenance,
unavailability of global pose measurements and so forth. This thesis deals with for-
mation control problem for real robot applications by taking practical constraints
into account.
First of all, virtual-structure based formation tracking control is studied, where
obstacle and inter-robot collision avoidance as well as connectivity maintenance are
explicitly considered.
To address this problem, a multi-region control scheme is
proposed, where three regions, safe region, dangerous region and transition region,
are defined. In different regions, priority is given to different control objectives.
In safe region where trajectory tracking holds the priority, the proposed control
scheme guarantees bounded reference tracking for each robot. In dangerous region
where avoidance control is the main objective, a new bounded potential function
is designed to formulate multiple constraints. By introducing a series of transition
functions, smooth switching between trajectory tracking and avoidance control is
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
achieved in transition region.
It has been proven that each robot can track its
reference trajectory while satisfying the constraints simultaneously with a bounded
controller, implying that the proposed control scheme satisfies input constraints by
properly tuning parameters.
Secondly, vision-based leader-follower formation tracking control is investigated,
while sensor limitations, obstacle and inter-robot collision avoidance and leader-loss
situation are considered and tackled in the proposed algorithm. For leader tracking,
a class of bounded barrier functions are employed to formulate distance and bear-
ing angle constraints introduced by sensor limitations and leader-follower collision
avoidance requirement. To ensure robot safety in unknown environments, a multi-
region obstacle avoidance algorithm is proposed which prioritizes different control
objectives in different regions. The leader-loss situation has also been studied, which
may be caused by illumination variation, motion blurring or visual occlusion by ob-
stacles. To deal with this case, a fault-tolerant strategy is designed to drive the
follower to the place where the leader was lost immediately. The proposed control
scheme is primarily designed for a communication-free environment where only lo-
cal pose measurements are available. Furthermore, it has control input constraints
explicitly taken into account.
Finally, flexible leader-follower formation tracking control is addressed, while most
of formation control related work in the literature focuses on rigid formation. To
illustrate the superiority of flexible formation against traditional rigid formation in
terms of motion capability, a mathematically rigorous analysis is presented from the
motion planning perspective on the basis of the definition of formation flexibility.
Unlike the previous studies on flexible formation control, this work is under a more
challenging assumption that global position and orientation measurements are not
available. To obtain the relative pose relationships amongst robots, a stereo camera
is mounted on each follower. In consideration of the fact that visual observations are
noise-corrupted and intermittently available, a particle filter based relative pose esti-
mation approach is employed to estimate the position and orientation of the leader
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
in the local reference frame of the follower using the polluted and discontinuous
information. Also, to form a flexible formation, the leader historical trajectory is re-
constructed with respect to the current local frame attached on the follower, based
on which a reference point is generated. In addition, the situation where robots
work in unknown obstacle environments is considered. To ensure robot safety in
such environments, a multi-objective control law is proposed to balance reference
tracking and collision avoidance in different situations.
In summary, this thesis provides three feasible formation control strategies for multi-
robot systems from the viewpoint of practical applications. All of the proposed
approaches are well supported by both numerical simulations and real robot exper-
iments.
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
AUTHOR’S PUBLICATIONS
Author’s Publications
Journal Papers:
1. Y. Wang, D. Wang, S. Yang, and M. Shan, “A Practical Leader-Follower
Tracking Control Scheme for Multiple Nonholonomic Mobile Robots in Un-
known Obstacle Environments,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Tech-
nology, DOI: 10.1109/TCST.2018.2825943.
2. Y. Wang, D. Wang, and S. Zhu, “Formation tracking of multi-vehicle systems
in unknown environments using a multi-region control scheme,” International
Journal of Control, vol. 90, no. 12, 2760-2771, 2017.
3. Y. Wang, D. Wang, and S. Zhu, “A New Navigation Function Based Decen-
tralized Control of Multi-Vehicle Systems in Unknown Environments,” Journal
of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol. 87, no. 2, 363-377, 2017.
Conference Papers:
1. Y. Wang, and D. Wang, “Non-singular moving path following control for
an unmanned aerial vehicle under wind disturbances,” Decision and Control
(CDC), 2017 IEEE 56th Annual Conference on, Dec. 2017, pp. 6442-6447.
2. Y. Wang, D. Wang, and B. C. Ng, “Finite time moving target tracking using
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
AUTHOR’S PUBLICATIONS
nonholonomic vehicles with distance and bearing angle constraints,” American
Control Conference (ACC), May 2017, pp. 2962-2967.
3. Y. Wang, D. Wang, and E. Mihankhah, “Navigation of multiple mobile robots
in unknown environments using a new decentralized navigation function,” in
Control, Automation, Robotics and Vision (ICARCV), 2016 14th Interna-
tional Conference on, Nov. 2016.
Papers in Review:
1. Y. Wang, M. Shan, Y. Yue, and D. Wang, “Flexible Leader-Follower Forma-
tion Analysis and Tracking Control of Multiple Nonholonomic Mobile Robots
Using Relative Pose Measurements,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems
Technology, (under review).
2. Y. Wang, D. Wang, and S. Zhu, “Cooperative Moving Path Following for
Multiple Fixed-Wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles with Speed Constraints,” Au-
tomatica, (under second round of review).
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore

-----
