Abstract 
This Thesis is about tuning three-dimensional graphene (3D-C) and three-dimensional 
hexagonal-boron nitride (3D-BN) into their hybrid 3D-BNC for various applications ranging 
from thermal management, to flexible electronics, space shielding and thermo-mechanical 
actuation in shape memory polymer (SMP). Through the ability to specifically control the 
compositions of C and BN, a highly tunable electrical conductivity (0 – 0.6 Scm-1), 
controllable EMI shielding properties (0 – ~50 dB), while maintaining a high and stable 
thermal conductivity (0.84 – 1.2 Wm-1K-1) is obtained. The interconnected structure of these 
3D porous, foam-like materials also prevents inhomogeneous distribution and aggregation 
commonly faced when using typical nanofillers in different matrices, which is why in this 
Thesis, they have been further developed in their bare state, as well as in conjunction with 
other matrices, such as polymers.  
The advancement of semiconductor technology in the era of “more-than-Moore” has led to 
an increasing challenge in thermal management. Integrated circuits (ICs) are so densely 
packed that they heat up within milliseconds, resulting in an extreme increase of generated 
heat. In order to mitigate this problem, the two opposing extremes of foam, 3D-C and 3D-BN 
are used to cater for all types of application (electrically conducting, such as interconnects, 
and insulating, such as high voltage devices). Through compression of the foams, a high 
cross-plane thermal conductivity of 62 – 86 Wm-1K-1, as well as excellent surface conformity 
is demonstrated, which are characteristics essential for thermal management needs. These 
values of thermal conductivity are among the highest cross-plane conductivities of free-
standing graphene or h-BN structures, and in the same range of eutectic metal foils. 
Evaluation of the thermal extraction efficiency on a state-of-the-art 2.5D electronic platform 
along with state-of-the-art thermal interface materials (TIMs) reveals 3D-foam’s improved 
performance of cooling by 20 – 30%, which means a temperature decrease by ΔT of 44 – 

-----
24°C. This is colder than any of the commercially available TIMs tested on the same 
platform (i.e. Sn/Au) and among the highest temperature decrease of hot spots on actual chips 
reported so far (e.g. highest values for alternative heat spreaders currently under research 
range around ΔT ~ 13°C for a CVD-graphene heat spreader and ΔT ~ 20°C for exfoliated 
few-layer graphene). This is a significant decrease, since it is known that the decrease of hot 
spot temperature on chips by 20°C extends the transistors lifetime by one order of magnitude. 
One of the most pressing and difficult challenges faced in the field of flexible electronics 
deals with creating a base substrate that can support flexible devices and components. Many 
have considered polyimides (PIs) as the flexible platform for such applications; however, due 
to their poor thermal conductivity being orders of magnitude smaller than standard substrate 
materials of conventional electronics, a thermal control problem arises, which limits their use 
as flexible materials in electronics. By hybridizing 3D-C and 3D-BN with PI an improved 
thermal dissipation by 25-times (5 – 6 Wm-1K-1) is obtained, while preserving full flexibility 
and toughness of the PI. It is shown that these hybrid films can be directly used as printable 
substrates and can dissipate heat more efficiently from hot spots, which in turn allows 
increasing the maximum power applicable by at least 23%.  
PIs have also been praised for their high temperature and UV stability and toughness, 
which currently makes them the standard choice for space shielding. However, their 
completely electrically insulating characteristics have caused other limitations, such as 
spacecraft electrostatic charging. Since the hybrid of 3D-C with PI has an electrical sheet 
resistance of 3 Ω/□, which fulfills the antistatic-criterion to dissipate the build-up of 
electrostatic charge, it is further developed for this application and space-qualified according 
to European Space Standards. It is shown that it withstands and keeps a stable performance 
throughout various thermal cycles (from -100°C to +160°C), as well as the oxidative and 
aggressive environment of ground-based simulated space environments (Gamma ray doses 

-----
equivalent to 15 years in geosynchronous equatorial orbit, GEO, and atomic oxygen exposure 
equivalent to 8 months exposure in low Earth orbit, LEO).  
Due to its easiness in shaping, ultra-light weight and customizability, SMPs have much 
potential in applications that require mechanical actuation, most commonly triggered by heat. 
However, the major drawback for SMP is its poor thermal conductivity, which often leads to 
a large thermal gradient across the material which results in non-uniform transformation of 
shapes and sometimes even results in cracks, due to the built up stress. To target this issue, 
3D-BNC foams of varying concentrations are infused with SMPs. Thanks to the 
homogeneous distribution of the foam within the polymer, a uniform spread of heat is 
obtained, thus leading to an even transformation of shape. It is demonstrated that through this 
technique, bigger sample sizes are attainable (maximum sizes without 3D-foam infusion are 3 
cm in length, while with the 3D-foam infusion up to 7 cm in length are demonstrated to 
transform without any cracking). It is shown that the 3D-foams speed up the transformation 
process by three times, reduce the required energy to initiate the transformation process by 
20% and in addition, thanks to the tunability of electrical conductivity of 3D-BNC, a self-
heating and timed actuation can be incorporated to the polymer.  
 

-----
