1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIDE-BAND MID-INFRARED QUANTUM DEVICES BASED 
ON INTERSUBBAND TRANSITIONS 
 
 
 
RODRIGUEZ MARTINEZ ETIENNE 
 
 
 
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 

-----
2 
 
Abstract 
The infrared region is the cradle of many vital applications in spectroscopy, medicine and 
communication. In the Mid-Infrared (MIR) region, innovations and significant improvements 
of the existing technologies call for advanced technologies such as frequency comb laser and 
high-speed photodetectors with high photoresponse at room temperature. Conventional systems 
are facing significant challenges due to their intrinsic high-speed limitations and the complexity 
to reach this domain. The development of quantum devices based on Intersubband Transitions 
(ISBT) has revealed significant advantages in the MIR reviving intense research in these fields. 
They allow excellent efficiency in the MIR region, and due to their intersubband transitions 
based on quantum well, they permit an easy tunability of the operation wavelength. In 
comparison to conventional devices, ISBT exhibits a very short carrier lifetime which makes 
them suitable for high-speed applications.  
The objective of this thesis is to develop and study the high-speed behaviour of quantum devices 
based on intersubband transitions for emission and detection of coherent light in the MIR 
region. Additionally, thanks to their wide-band properties, passive and active mode-locking 
Quantum Cascade Laser (QCL) will be investigated as well.  
In this thesis, we first present an overview of standard characterisations of QCL devices and 
then investigate their high-speed behaviour using rectification methods. High-speed 
photodetectors are also developed in this project. We study the comb formation in QCLs owing 
to the coexistence of low-dispersion region and non-linear effects favouring the comb 
formation. The low-dispersive area in simulations is in good agreement with experimental data 
showing a constant Free-Spectral Range (FSR) over this region. Moreover, the detection of a 
small beatnote at the round-trip of the cavity is a clear evidence of passive mode-locking of a 
part of the spectrum. Next, we investigate the evolution of the spectra using active mode-locked 

-----
3 
 
methods based on Radio-Frequency (RF) injections at the round trip of the cavity. Furthermore, 
high-resolution spectra recorded under RF injection provide interesting information regarding 
the dispersion and the variation of the FSR. 
 Secondly, we developed a Quantum Well Infrared Photodetector (QWIP) based on air-bridge 
contacts to promote the high-speed modulation. Optical characterisation of the devices has been 
realised to deeply understand the dependence of the responsivity and photoconductive gain with 
the temperature and high electric field. Finally, we tested its wide-band operation by detecting 
the high-frequency modulation of the QCLs previously characterised. The development of both 
high-speed emitter and receiver at the same wavelength allow a powerful pair for many 
applications in the MIR region.   

-----
