Abstract
Biometrics has nowadays become the universal interest for the security application such
as forensics and identification. Among the various biometrics information (e.g. finger-
print, face, palm, veins, iris, gait), “face” is the most popular one since face recognition
only needs a camera which is available on most of the smart-phones. Due to the rapid
development of face recognition technology (e.g. deep learning), face recognition has
been applied to many applications, such as the “smile to pay” facial recognition system
based on Alipay’s mobile phone app.
Despite the success of face recognition system, it is vulnerable to spoofing attack
(with a special medium). An attacker can easily bypass the face recognition system with
printed photo/replay video of an authenticated user. Due to the security issue raised by
face spoofing, face anti-spoofing has recently emerged as an active topic with great sig-
nificance for both academia and industry. Recently, numerous face spoofing detection
schemes have been proposed based on either hand-crafted features or deep learning fea-
tures. However, these methods are limited in their scope that the face images (videos)
for training and the images (videos) for testing are all collected from the similar con-
dition, which constrains the application of such face spoofing detection methods since
the environments of face capturing can be diverse in practice. In light of this, we aim
to address the face anti-spoofing problem by improving the generalization capability to
practical face capturing conditions in this thesis.
The reason which prevents the current methods from the practical application is due
1

-----
to the large performance drop since the classifier obtained by training data can not be
well generalized to testing data. It is indeed that we cannot collect face data from all pos-
sible conditions and environments. However, it is possible to collect a limited number of
data based on a specific scenario (e.g. door controlled access). We expect to build a more
robust face spoofing detection classifier by leveraging the limited number of face data
we collected by ourselves and the large amount of face data which are publicly avail-
able. Based on this motivation, we aim to improve the generalization capability with
only limited face data in an application-specific domain by leveraging data from a richer
— and related — domain, seeking to learn meaningful features, through neural network
distilling, to distinguish presentation attack samples from genuine ones in a setup with
limited training data. In particular, we first train a deep neural network based on the
sufficient labeled data set in an attempt to “teach” a neural network for the application-
specific domain. Subsequently, we form training sample pairs, from the two domains,
and formulate a novel optimization function, dedicated to capture spoofing-specific in-
formation and train a discriminative deep neural network on the application-specific
domain.
It is also possible to conduct face anti-spoofing in an “off-line” fashion. More specif-
ically, we first collected face data and conduct face spoofing detection by leveraging
these “unlabeled” testing data after a period of time. Such motivation is practical based
on applications such as face registration. In light of this, we introduce an unsupervised
domain adaptation face anti-spoofing scheme to address the problem that learns the clas-
sifier for the target domain based on training samples in a different source domain. In
particular, an embedding function is first imposed based on source and target domain
data, which maps the data to a new space where the distribution similarity can be mea-
sured. Subsequently, the Maximum Mean Discrepancy between the latent features in
source and target domains is minimized such that a more generalized classifier can be
learned. State-of-the-art representations including both hand-crafted and deep neural
2

-----
network learned features are further adopted into the framework to quest the capability
of them in domain adaptation.
Finally, we aim to address the problem that no testing face data information is avail-
able during training the phase. This scenario is important for practical application where
face spoofing detection is conducted in a “real-time” fashion. In particular, we propose a
novel framework leveraging the advantages of the representational ability of deep learn-
ing and domain generalization for face spoofing detection. In particular, the generalized
deep feature representation is achieved by taking both spatial and temporal information
into consideration, and a novel network architecture tailored for the spatial-temporal
input is proposed. The network is first initialized by training with augmented facial
samples based on cross-entropy loss and further enhanced with a specifically designed
generalization loss, which coherently serves as the regularization term to train the net-
work in an end-to-end fashion. The training samples from different domains can seam-
lessly work together for learning the generalized feature representation by manipulating
their feature distribution distances.
3

-----
Author’s Publications
1. Haoliang Li, Wen Li, Hong Cao, Shiqi Wang, Feiyue Huang and Alex C. Kot, ”Un-
supervised Domain Adaptation for Face Anti-Spoofing,”, IEEE Transactions on In-
formation Forensics and Security (in press).
2. Haoliang Li, Peisong He, Shiqi Wang, Anderson Rocha, Xinghao Jiang and Alex C.
Kot, ”Learning Generalized Feature Representation for Face Anti-spoofing,”, IEEE
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security (Accepted with Minor Revision).
3. Haoliang Li, Shiqi Wang, Peisong He, Anderson Rocha and Alex C. Kot, ”Deep
Neural Network Distilling for Face Spoofing Detection,”, submitted to IEEE Trans-
actions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology.
4. Haoliang Li, Sinno J Pan, Shiqi Wang and Alex C. Kot, ”Heterogeneous Domain
Adaptation via Matrix Factorization in RKHS,”, submitted to IEEE Transactions on
Neural Network and Learning Systems.
5. Haoliang Li, Wen Li, Sinno J Pan and Alex C. Kot, ”Discovering and Incorporating
Latent Target-Domains for Domain Adaptation,”, to be submitted to IEEE Transac-
tions on Image Processing.
6. Haoliang Li, Sinno J Pan, Shiqi Wang and Alex C. Kot, ”Domain Generalization
with Adversarial Feature Learning,”, in Proceeding of IEEE International Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2018.
4

-----
AUTHOR’S PUBLICATIONS
5
7. Haoliang Li, Shiqi Wang and Alex C. Kot, ”Image Recapture Dection with Convo-
lutional and Recurrent Neural Network”, in Proceeding of Electronic Imaging, IS&T,
2017
8. Haoliang Li, Alex C. Kot and Leida Li, ”Color Space Identification from Single
Images”, in Proceeding of IEEE Isnternational Symposium on Circuits and System
(ISCAS), 2016
9. Leida Li, Dong Wu, Jinjian Wu, Haoliang Li, Weisi Lin, Alex C. Kot, “Image Sharp-
ness Assessment by Sparse Representation”.
IEEE Transactions on Multimedia,
vol.18, no.6, pp.1085 - 1097, June 2016
10. Leida Li, Yu Zhou, Jinjian Wu, Weisi Lin and Haoliang Li, ”GridSAR: Grid Strength
and Regularity for Robust Evaluation of Blocking Artifacts in JPEG Images,” Elsevi-
er Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, vol.30, pp.153-163,
July 2015.
11. Khosro Bahrami, Alex ChiChung Kot, Leida Li and Haoliang Li, ”Blurred Image
Splicing Localization by Exposing Blur Type Inconsistency”, IEEE Transactions on
Information Forensics and Security, vol.10, no.5, pp.999–1009, April 2015

-----
