Distance Metric Learning for Visual Recognition 
 
How to design a favorable distance function plays an important role in many computer vision and 
pattern recognition tasks. Over the past decade, a variety of distance metric learning algorithms 
have been proposed in the literature and most of them have obtained the reasonable success in 
many visual recognition applications, such as face recognition, image classification, person re-
identification and visual search. However, there are still several issues to be addressed to distance 
metric learning. In this thesis, we propose several deep metric leaning methods and multi-view 
metric learning methods, and apply them to various visual recognition applications to demonstrate 
their effectiveness. 
First, most metric learning methods usually seek a single linear transformation to map data points 
into a new feature space such that they may not be powerful enough to exploit the nonlinear 
relationship of data points. Even if the kernel trick is employed to map data points into a high-
dimensional feature space under which a discriminative distance metric is learned, the kernel-based 
metric learning methods still suffer from the scalability problem as they cannot obtain the explicit 
nonlinear mapping functions. To explicitly address both the nonlinearity and scalability problems, we 
propose a discriminative deep metric learning (DDML) method by using deep neural network 
architecture. The DDML trains a neural network which learns a set of hierarchical nonlinear 
transformations to project sample pairs into the same feature subspace, under which the distance of 
each positive sample pair is less than a smaller threshold and that of each negative pair is higher 
than a larger threshold respectively, such that more discriminative information can be used in the 
neural network. Extensive experiments for face verification and kinship verification demonstrate the 
efficacy of the proposed method. 
Second, most existing metric learning methods usually assume that the training and test samples are 
from the same distribution. This assumption doesn't hold in many real-world visual recognition 
applications. To address this problem, we propose a deep transfer metric learning (DTML) method to 
learn a set of hierarchical nonlinear transformations for cross-domain visual recognition by 
transferring discriminative knowledge from the labeled source domain to the unlabeled target 
domain. Specifically, the proposed DTML learns a deep metric network by maximizing the inter-class 
variations and minimizing the intra-class variations, and minimizing the distribution divergence 
between the source domain and the target domain at the top layer of the network. To better exploit 
the discriminative information from the source domain, we further develop a deeply supervised 
transfer metric learning (DSTML) method by including an additional objective on DTML, where the 

-----
output of both the hidden layers and the top layer are optimized jointly. To preserve the local 
manifold of input data points in the metric space, we present two new methods, DTML with 
autoencoder regularization (DTML-AE) and DSTML with autoencoder regularization (DSTML-AE). 
Experimental results on face verification, person re-identification, and handwritten digit recognition 
validate the effectiveness of the proposed methods. 
Third, it is desirable to learn distance metrics from multiple feature representations such that more 
discriminative information can be exploited. To explore multiple feature representations in metric 
learning, we first propose a large-margin multi-metric learning (LM3L) method to collaboratively 
learn multiple distance metrics from multiple feature representations of data, where one distance 
metric is learned for each feature and the correlations of different feature representations of each 
sample are maximized, and under the learned metric spaces the distance of each positive pair is less 
than a smaller threshold and that of each negative face pair is more than a larger threshold, 
respectively. In addition, we also propose two local distance metric learning approaches, i.e., local 
metric learning (LML) and local large-margin multi-metric learning (L2M3L), to better exploit the local 
manifold structures of data points. Experimental results on face verification and kinship verification 
tasks show the efficacy of the proposed methods. 

-----
