Abstract 
In recent years, the market of consumer electronics has witnessed a growing demand for portable devices with high-
fidelity audio playback capability. For such devices like smart phones, tablets and watches, their size and weight keep 
on shrink to meet the portability requirement by customers. As a result, the space left for battery is likely to be further 
reduced. At the meantime, more functional blocks are still expected to be integrated into the system which will deplete 
the battery even more quickly. Therefore low quiescent power and high power efficiency become key performance 
metrics for the audio unit. In order to improve the power efficiency of a typical linear amplifier, the key point is to 
reduce the conduction losses of power transistors. As a straightforward solution, class G amplifier which uses two 
different supply rails for the output stage is proposed. However, the power efficiency is still low once the higher supply 
rail is selected. To further optimize the power efficiency, we proposed a novel class H architecture which operates with 
only single-rail supply. The supply to the output stage is designed to be adaptive to the instant input signal level so that 
the voltage drop across the power transistor is kept constant. Therefore, compared with other linear amplifier 
architectures (class B/AB/G), the proposed design features much better overall power efficiency. 
An existing issue with the above mentioned adaptive-supply amplifiers is the added distortion during mode switching. 
In class G amplifier when the threshold is met, the supply of the output stage will see steep steps from low to high 
transitions. These sudden changes tend to add additional distortions to the amplifier’s output waveforms. Therefore, 
for conventional adaptive-supply amplifiers, there is a sudden jump in the Total Harmonic Distortion (THD) when the 
high supply starts operating. In this research, we proposed a common-mode modulation (CMM) scheme to solve this 
problem. Instead of changing the system configuration upon the triggering of mode switching, we extracted and 
embedded the amplitude information of the input signal into the common-mode (CM) voltage at the output stage. As 
the CM voltage cancels out at the output stage, this scheme yield a much more smooth transition during mode switching, 
and no additional distortion is added to the output signal. 
To validate the proposed amplifier architecture, a prototype of the design was fabricated in 0.18-µm CMOS process. 
Measurements results reveal that the proposed amplifier achieves 80.4% peak power efficiency which is the highest 
among all linear amplifiers in the literature. In the intermediate output power range it demonstrates more than 25% 
efficiency merit as compared to class AB and class G amplifiers. It also achieves a lowest THD+N value of -80 dB and 
there is no degradation on the THD value during mode transition. Its quiescent power consumed by the whole system 
is 3.52 mW which is also significantly lower than the benchmark class H amplifier design. 

-----
