 
 
Kernel Methods for Visual Perception 
The dissertation addresses the problem of visual perception, espe-
cially in robotics and machine vision. The main task of visual per-
ception is to enable the capability of a computer system to interpret 
the surrounding environment using data acquired from cameras and 
other aided sensors. The dissertation proposes the kernel methods 
for several basic visual perceptual problems, including tracking, lo-
calization, mapping, and recognition. 
For visual object tracking, this dissertation proposes a kernel cross-
correlator (KCC) that breaks traditional limitations. First, by intro-
ducing the kernel trick, the KCC extends the linear cross-correlation 
to non-linear space, which is more robust to signal noises and dis-
tortions. Second, the connection to the existing works shows that 
KCC provides a unified solution for correlation filters. Third, KCC 
is applicable to any kernel function and is not limited to circulant 
structure on training data, thus it is able to predict affine transfor-
mations with customized properties. Last, by leveraging the fast 
Fourier transform (FFT), KCC eliminates direct calculation of ker-
nel vectors, thus achieves better performance yet still with a reason-
able computational cost. Comprehensive experiments on visual 
tracking and human activity recognition using wearable devices 
demonstrate its robustness, flexibility, and efficiency. 
Robust velocity and position estimation is crucial for autonomous 
robot navigation. This dissertation proposes a kernel based algo-
rithm to determine optical flow using a monocular camera, which is 
named as correlation flow (CF). CF can provide reliable and accu-
rate velocity estimation and is robust to motion blur. In addition, it 
can also estimate the altitude velocity and yaw rate, which are not 
available by traditional methods. Autonomous flight tests on a quad-
copter show that CF can provide robust trajectory estimation with 
very low processing power. 
In the problem of simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), 
traditional odometry methods resort to iterative algorithms which 

-----
 
 
are usually computationally expensive or require well-designed ini-
tialization. To overcome this problem, we propose a non-iterative 
solution to RGB-D-inertial odometry system, also using the kernel 
methods. To reduce the odometry and inertial drifts, we present two 
frameworks for Non-Iterative SLAM (NI-SLAM). One is to seek 
the aids from ultra wide-band (UWB) technology, another is to com-
bine an iterative back-end for loop closure. Both framework pro-
vides reliable performance and have been applied to real applica-
tions. Dominated by the fast Fourier transform (FFT), our non-iter-
ative front-end is only of complexity Ο(# lg #), where # is the num-
ber of points. The map fusion is conducted by element-wise opera-
tion, so that both time and space complexity are further reduced. 
Extensive experiments show that, due to the lightweight of the pro-
posed front-end, the two frameworks of NI-SLAM can run at a much 
faster speed and yet still with comparable accuracy with the state-
of-the-arts. 
Convolutional neural networks (ConvNets) have enabled the state-
of-the-art performance in computer vision and machine learning. 
However, little efforts have been devoted to establishing convolu-
tion in non-linear space. A new operation, kervolution (kernel con-
volution), is defined to approximate the non-linear behavior of the 
human perception system. It generalizes traditional convolution and 
increases the model capacity without introducing more parameters. 
Similar to convolution, kervolution can be calculated as element-
wise multiplication via Fourier transform. The networks consisting 
of kervolutional layers are named as kervolutional neural networks 
(KervNets). The extensive experiments show that KervNets achieve 
better performance than ConvNets on CIFAR and ImageNet dataset. 
In summary, the dissertation demonstrates the superiority of the pro-
posed kernel tools, including KCC, CF, NI-SLAM and KervNets for 
several visual perception problems. With the kernel tools, we may 
expect their usage in more applications. 
 
 

-----
 
 
Publication List 
[1]. Chen Wang, Junsong Yuan, Lihua Xie, “Non-Iterative SLAM," Interna-
tional Conference on Advanced Robotics (ICAR), pp. 83–90, July 2017.  
[2]. Chen Wang, Handuo Zhang, Thien-Minh Nguyen, Lihua Xie, “Ultra-
Wideband Aided Fast Localization and Mapping System," 2017 
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems 
(IROS 2017), pp. 1602-1609, Sep. 2017. 
[3]. Chen Wang, Le Zhang, Lihua Xie, Junsong Yuan, “Kernel Cross-Corre-
lator," The Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-18), Feb. 2018. 
[4]. Chen Wang, Tete Ji, Thien-Minh Nguyen, Lihua Xie, “Correlation Flow: 
Robust Optical Flow Using Kernel Cross-Correlators," International Con-
ference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2018. 
[5]. Chen Wang, Lihua Xie, Junsong Yuan, “Non-Iterative Localization and 
Dense Mapping," arXiv:1710.05502.  
[6]. Chen Wang, Xu Fang, Thien-Minh Nguyen, Lihua Xie, “Graph Optimi-
zation Approach to Localization with IMU and Ultra-Wideband Measure-
ments," arXiv:1802.10276. 
[7]. Chen Wang, Jianfei Yang, Lihua Xie, and Junsong Yuan, “Kervolutional 
Neural Networks," in review.  
Patent and Technical Disclosure List 
[1]. Chen Wang*, Lihua Xie*, and Junsong Yuan. "Simultaneous Localiza-
tion and Mapping Methods and Apparatus." International/U.S. Patent No. 
PCT/SG2017/050446, Sep. 2016. (*Joint first authors) 
[2]. Chen Wang*, Lihua Xie*, Jianfei Yang, and Junsong Yuan. "Kervolu-
tional Neural Networks." Singapore Provisional Patent Application No. 
10201802135Y. NTU Ref: PAT/344/17/18/SG PRV, Mar. 2018. (*Joint 
first authors) 
[3]. Chen Wang*, Lihua Xie*, and Xu Fang. " A Novel Graph Optimization 
Approach to Localization with Application for Unmanned Systems.". 
NTU Ref: TD/254/17, Sep. 2017. (*Joint first authors) 
Award List: 
[1]. Best Paper Award in robotic planning, “Non-Iterative SLAM” in 2017 
18th International Conference on Advanced Robotics (ICAR). 
[2]. Championship Award 1st, Category D, Semi-Autonomous, 2015. in Sin-
gapore Amazing Flying Machine Competition (SAFMC) 

-----
Visual Kernel
Kernel Cross-Correlator
Non-iterative Odometry
Visual Tracking
KervNets
Kervolutional Layer
Image Classification
Learnable Kernel
Correlation Flow
Object Tracking
Loop Closure
RGB-D-inertial
UWB Aided Mapping
Human Activity Recgnition
Siganal Matching
Non-iterative SLAM
Dense Mapping
Ultra-low power
Velocity Estimation
KTC/KRS/KSC
Localization
THESIS MIND MAP
Chen Wang  |   March 22, 2018
Online Update
UWB Localization

-----
