i 
 
3-D FREQUENCY-SELECTIVE STRUCTURE 
AND ITS APPLICATIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
AHMED ABDELMOTTALEB ABDELFATTAH ATTIA 
OMAR 
 
 
 
 
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
 
 
A thesis submitted to the Nanyang Technological University 
in partial fulfillment of the requirement for the degree of 
Doctor of Philosophy 
 
2018 

-----
ii 
 
ABSTRACT 
Frequency-selective surfaces are 2-D infinite arrays that act as a filter for the 
incident electromagnetic waves. They have been used in hybrid radomes, 
dichroic main reflector, sub-reflector, microwave absorbers, absorptive 
frequency-selective surfaces, high impedance surfaces and many other 
applications. These 2-D arrays consist of slots in a conducting plate or 
conducting strips printed on a dielectric layer, which is able to produce band-
pass or band-stop frequency response, respectively. The traditional 2-D 
frequency-selective surface suffers from some drawbacks, such as poor 
selectivity and for some cases its performance is sensitive to oblique incidence. 
Recently, 3-D frequency-selective structure was presented in the literature. By 
employing multi-mode resonators, pseudo-elliptic response can be achieved, 
which has better selectivity compared to 2-D surfaces. Here, we focus on 
multiband high-order bandstop frequency-selective structure, ultra-wideband 
absorber and absorptive frequency-selective transmission structure. 
First, a general and systematic methodology is proposed to design multiband 
high-order bandstop 3-D frequency-selective structures. By adjusting the 
coupling between identical resonators, high-order response is achieved. 
Through introducing multiple resonators in a single unit cell, one can readily 
obtain multiband filtering response. Detailed analysis for the coupling between 
identical resonators is provided, so are equivalent circuit models to explain the 
operating principle. Two structures are designed, fabricated, and measured to 
verify the proposed methodology. The first structure is a tri-band second-order 
frequency-selective structure, while the second structure exhibits a dual-band 
third-order response. 
Although the 3-D frequency-selective structure has a good performance, it has 
two problems; one is the thickness problem, which may limit its practical 
applications and the other is the operation under dual-polarized incident wave. 
A loop resonator is then proposed in the unit cell of the bandstop structure 
instead of microstrip resonator aiming to achieve maximum reduction in the 

-----
iii 
 
structure thickness. Using elliptical loop with stepped-impedance resonator, an 
80% reduction in structure thickness is achieved without degrading the 
performance compared to the original structure, which makes it suitable for the 
practical applications. 
In addition, folded substrate technique is employed for the bandpass frequency-
selective structure to reduce its thickness. A 67% and 79% thickness reduction 
compared to the basic bandpass 3-D frequency-selective structure is achieved 
by employing three- and five-layer folded substrate, respectively. Moreover, a 
half-cylindrically shaped radome as an example of conformal frequency-
selective surface is constructed based on the proposed technique and integrated 
with a broadband horn antenna. Besides working as a radome it shows good 
filtering properties. A fabricated prototype of this radome is measured in the 
presence of a broadband horn antenna. 
Furthermore, double-sided parallel-strip line resonator is employed in the unit 
cell of a 3-D frequency-selective structure in order to exhibit the desired 
response (bandstop, bandpass and absorption) under an incident wave of 
arbitrary polarization. It is found that this unit cell supports the propagation of 
three quasi-TEM modes. A dual-polarized bandstop 3-D frequency-selective 
structure is then proposed. Moreover, a dual-polarized absorber is also realized 
employing a unit cell with double-sided parallel-strip line resonator. By 
properly exciting and absorbing the second mode of the modified unit cell, an 
ultra-wideband dual-polarized absorber is constructed. 
As the last application example, which is absorptive frequency-selective 
transmission structure, a tailoring methodology is proposed to achieve arbitrary 
frequency response within a wide absorption band. An ultra-wideband absorber 
utilizing multiple resonances in the unit cell of 3-D frequency-selective 
structure is utilized as the textile for the proposed designs. Two structures are 
proposed; one is the absorptive frequency-selective reflection structure and the 
other is the absorptive frequency-selective transmission structure. Two 
prototypes are designed, fabricated, and measured to validate the proposed 
methodology. The first one is an ultra-wideband absorber, while the second one 

-----
iv 
 
is an absorptive frequency-selective transmission structure with wide absorption 
bands at both sides of its transmission window. A good agreement is achieved 
between simulated and measured results. 
Finally, a few suggestions and recommendations are made for further 
investigation. For example, a tunable absorptive frequency selective 
transmission is proposed, which may be integrated with a tunable antenna to 
achieve a low radar cross-section tunable antenna system. The structure 
employing double-sided parallel-strip line resonator may be suitable for 
transmit / reflect arrays as well. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

-----
v 
 
AUTHOR'S PUBLICATIONS 
Journal papers 
1. 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Multiband high-order bandstop 3-D 
frequency-selective structures,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 
64, no. 6, pp. 2217–2226, Jun. 2016. 
2. 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Thin bandstop frequency-selective 
structures based on loop resonator,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory 
Techn., vol. 65, no. 7, pp. 2298–2309, July. 2017. 
3. 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Double-sided parallel-strip line resonator 
for dual-polarized 3-D frequency-selective structure and absorber,” 
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 65, no. 10, pp. 3744–3752, 
Oct. 2017. 
4. 
A. A. Omar, Z. Shen, and H. Huang, “Absorptive frequency-
selective reflection and transmission structures,” IEEE Trans. 
Antennas Propag., vol. 65, no. 11, pp. 6173–6178, Nov. 2017. 
5. 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Thin bandpass 3-D frequency-selective 
structure based on folded substrate for conformal radome 
application,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., to be submitted. 
 

-----
vi 
 
Conference papers 
1 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Multi-band second-order bandstop 
frequency selective structure with controllable band ratios,” IEEE 
AP-S Antennas and Propag. Symp., Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada, July 19-24, 2015. 
2 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “A loop resonator for 3-D frequency 
selective structure,” International Symp. On Antennas and Propag. 
(ISAP), Hobart, Tasmania, Australia, November 09-12, 2015. 
3 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Dual-polarized absorber based on 3-D 
frequency-selective structure,” IEEE AP-S Antennas and Propag. 
Symp., Fajardo, Puerto Rico, USA, June 26- July 01, 2016, pp. 675–
676. 
4 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “An ultra-wideband absorber based on 
multiple 
resonators 
in 
3-D 
frequency-selective 
structure,” 
International Conference on Electromagnetics in Advanced 
Applications (ICEAA), Verona, Italy, September 11-15, 2017, pp. 
1802–1804. 
5 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Ultra-wideband harmonic-suppressed 
bandpass/stop frequency-selective surface based on L-C lumped 
elements,” 12th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 
(EUCAP), London, UK, April 09-13, 2018. 

-----
vii 
 
6 
A. A. Omar and Z. Shen, “Tunable absorptive frequency-selective 
transmission structure,” IEEE AP-S Antennas and Propag. Symp., 
Boston, MA, USA, July 08-13, 2018 to be presented. 
 

-----
