 
 
Abstract
Abstract 
 
Gallium Nitride (GaN) with its large bandgap, high electron saturation velocity, and 
critical electric field has been widely applied in the fabrication of illumination, high 
frequency, and high-power devices. In addition, GaN has also been used for various 
sensing applications such as UV and gas detectors, etc.  Another sensing application 
for GaN is in radiation sensing.  This is because the Displacement Energy (ED) of GaN 
is 20 eV which is much higher as compared to other semiconductors such as GaAs 
and Si. Up till now, different research groups have successfully fabricated GaN 
Schottky Barrier Diodes (SBD) and tested them for alpha particle detection. While 
SBDs with thin epitaxial layers (<12 μm) could only detect low energy alpha particles 
(<4.5 MeV) at -120 V, SBDs on bulk GaN substrate required very high voltage (-550V) 
to detect higher energies (5.48 MeV). However, both bulk GaN SBDs and SBDs with 
thin epitaxial layers show extremely poor performance at low voltages. The poor 
performance of GaN-based radiation detector is due to the high Threading 
Dislocation Density (TDD) and limited Depletion Width (DW). While high TDD 
increases leakage current (IR), thus reducing the sensitivity of the detector, thin DW 
restricts the maximum energy which can be detected by a GaN detector.   

-----
 
 
In this thesis, the focus is to reduce IR and increase DW by reducing TDD, Charge 
Carrier Density (CCD), and increasing Drift Layer Thickness (DLT). While TDD was 
successfully reduced (~3 orders) by employing a GaN-on-GaN structure, CCD was 
reduced by compensating the un-intentionally doped n-type (Si) dopants with p-
type (Mg) dopants. In addition, multiple Drift Layers (DL) of different thicknesses 
were grown to improve the SBD performance further. Finally, the fabricated SBDs 
were then tested as radiation detectors to detect higher energy (5.48 MeV) alpha 
particles. 
In this study, SBDs were fabricated on GaN-on-GaN wafers with 15 µm 
compensated DL. Compensation of DL reduced CCD by ~2 orders resulting in 3-
order reduction of IR (3 pA) and ~3 times improvement in Breakdown Voltage (VBD) 
(1480 V) while having minimal impact on the forward current characteristics. To 
further increase DW and understand the effect of change in DW on diode 
characteristics, multiple SBDs were fabricated on GaN-on-GaN wafers with different 
Drift Layer Thicknesses (DLT) (2 μm, 5 μm, 15 μm, and 30 μm). Increase in DLT 
increases DW resulting in 1-order reduction in IR.  A linear increase in VBD from 560 
V to 2400 V was observed with an increase in DLT. The measured VBD of 2400 V on 
SBDs with 30 μm DLT is the highest reported value to date.  

-----
 
 
To further enhance the understanding of the physical causes for the reduction in IR 
and increase in VBD, Conduction Mechanism (CM) and Activation energy (Ea) was 
extracted from the IVT characteristics of the SBDs. It was found that the CM 
changed from barrier modified Thermionic Field Emission (TFE) in conventional 
SBDs to regular TFE in compensated SBDs with 15 µm DL due to lower CCD and 
increased DW. Similarly, increasing DLT of SBD changed the CM from TFE to TE due 
to the reduced probability of electron tunneling through thicker DW. Ea of ~0.4 eV 
was extracted from IVT characteristics, which corresponds to activation of Mg-ions 
used to compensate the n-type (Si) dopants. CM and Ea together provide a clear 
understanding of the effect of compensation and change in DLT on the DW, thereby 
IR and VBD.    
Finally, SBDs with compensated DLT of 15 µm and 30 µm were tested for radiation 
sensing applications by exposing them to Am-241 alpha particle source, which 
releases a 5.48 MeV alpha particle. These SBDs exhibited a near-ideal Charge 
Collection Efficiency (CCE) at 96.7% at -300 V (in 15 µm SBDs) and at -750 V (in 30 
µm SBDs). The detectors with 15 µm DL also exhibited a CCE of 65% at a low biasing 
voltage of -20V.  The measured CCE is 30% higher in comparison with other reported 
GaN radiation detectors.  Furthermore, they exhibit 5 times lower variation of CCE 
with a change in applied voltages from -20V to -80V. The dramatic reduction in CCE 
variation with applied voltage and improvement in CCE is a result of the reduced 

-----
 
 
CCD due to the compensation by Mg in the grown GaN DL, which resulted in the 
increased of DW for the fabricated GaN SBDs. 
In summary, high energy detection at low voltages have been realized by reducing 
TDD, CCD, and increasing DW. The designed GaN detectors function with high 
efficiency even at low voltages.  These enhanced performances will help to realize 
a radiation detector with high efficiency, smaller form factor, and increased 
portability.  
 
 
 
 

-----
