Abstract 
Electric propulsion with on-board dc distribution has become the solution for 
large marine vessels due to the growing concerns of environmental pollution, 
operating cost, and better dynamic performance as compared to the conventional 
combustion engine propulsion. Variable frequency operating diesel generators and 
azimuth thrusters are the primary components in such electrified ships, and it currently 
became prevalent. However, the mechanical failures among bevel gear, coupling, and 
bearing in the propulsion system are reported commonly, and it may be attributed to 
the harsh operating condition in extreme sea state. The diesel generator system 
suffers disturbance from the engine side and the electrical load side, whereas the 
azimuth thruster is subjected to extreme hydrodynamic load disturbances. These 
disturbances result in torsional stresses in the drivetrain and are the main reasons for 
failure.  One main advantage of using the electric propulsion is its flexible and instant 
torque control that can mitigate the adverse effect of torsional stress in the drivetrain. 
The electro-mechanical interaction and torsional vibration reductions using torque 
control were investigated in wind, steel, and automobile industries and solutions were 
suggested to reduce stress through advanced control of the power electronic 
converter. Similar studies can be carried out in marine propulsion system to explore 
potential electrical control solution to reduce fatigue and thereby prolong the life. This 
thesis is to develop advanced control strategies for mitigating electro-mechanical 
interaction and torsional vibration load in marine propulsion system which are excited 
due to extreme disturbances. This thesis is divided into four main parts: (1) 
Development of detailed models for marine propulsion system components (2) 
Development of power electronics based control algorithm to reduce elevated load 
levels induced during disturbances (3) Application of the proposed power electronic 
control algorithm to azimuth thruster and diesel generator system (4) Experimental 
validation of the proposed control algorithm on a multi-inertia lab test rig.  
In the first part of the thesis, detailed models are developed for 2 MW azimuth 
thruster and diesel generator system, and their transient responses are analysed 
under extreme disturbances. The azimuth thruster is tested under rapid ventilation, 
whereas the diesel generator is tested under engine transients and electrical load 
disturbance. Simulations with the detailed models have illustrated torque overloads, 

-----
dynamic speed differences, torsional stresses, and potential damage to critical 
components. The results show the need for an active torque control algorithm to 
manage the excessive drivetrain torque caused by a sudden load change. 
In the second part of the thesis, two control solutions are proposed to manage 
excessive drivetrain torque and torsional stress caused by the sudden load change. 
The proposed controllers can change the damping ratio and natural frequency by the 
introduction of virtual material damping and virtual stiffness in the system, and these 
changes can reduce resonant torque amplitudes in the driveline. Theoretical analysis 
and control gain design are presented for the proposed solutions and are bench 
marked against solutions in other industries such as wind, steel, and automobile. 
In the third part of the thesis, the proposed solutions are applied to marine 
propulsion system.  Active control gain design, positioning of sensors, and observer 
design are explained in detail in this section. The proposed solutions can reduce shaft 
over torque, torsional stresses, and vibration duration considerably in azimuth thruster 
and diesel generator system. The proposed solutions resulted in torsional energy 
transfer problem in DC link and which is solved using an effective torsional energy 
absorption system based on supercapacitor.   
In the final part of the thesis, a 1.2 kW multi-inertia test rig which emulates the 
drivetrain of an azimuth thruster is designed and is subsequently used to validate the 
proposed control algorithms. Simulation model for the test rig is developed using 
SIMPACK software and MATLAB, and initial verification of the proposed control 
algorithm is done. A power electronic circuit is created to induce extreme load 
fluctuations in the experimental setup.   The experimental results illustrated that the 
proposed solutions can reduce shaft over torque, dynamic speed difference, and 
torsional vibrations. 
Finally, the conclusions of the mentioned studies are presented, and future 
directions of the research work are discussed. 
 
 
Rapid ventilation- The propeller is momentarily lifted out of water due to rough sea 
state.  
Foreign body impact- The propeller crushing a block of ice or foreign body.  

-----
Index Term: Azimuth propeller, diesel generator system, foreign body impact, 
electromechanical interaction, extreme sea condition, mechanical drive train, natural 
frequency, rapid ventilation, ship propulsion, speed control, torque control. 
 
 

-----
