Operation and Control of DC Microgrids 
 
Abstract 
The utilization of DC microgrids in power industry has increased rapidly with the 
expansion in use of renewable energy sources (RES), energy storages (ESs) and DC 
inherent loads. DC microgrid (MG) reduces the power conversion stages, does not 
require frequency, phase and reactive power control in its operation making it 
advantageous over AC microgrids. However, the cost-effective solution to renewable 
intermittency, system topology and standards for reliable, stable and efficient power 
supply still needs examinations through research. Control strategies, for economic 
solution to mitigate renewable intermittency in the system with inclusion of hybrid 
energy storage system (HESS), interconnection of microgrids with tie-line for reliable 
power supply and bipolar-type DC microgrids for high quality and high efficiency power 
supply, is proposed, implemented and elaborated in this report. 
 
ESs are an option to solve renewable intermittency that can increase the utilization of 
RES into grid, changing the undispatchable generation to dispatchable. ESs can generate 
profit upon charging them when local electricity price lowers and can be discharged 
when the price is high. Choice of energy storage ranging from short term to long term is 
a key factor to address the compensation of load peaks, transients and to provide 
autonomy to the microgrids.  Unfortunately, they cannot be achieved by a single energy 
storage, thus the need of hybridization of ESs which have high specific energy and 
specific power is the solution for proper compensation of power fluctuation in 
autonomous microgrids. Generally, HESS with centralized control is utilized to 
decompose system net power and has the limitation of slow response. Conventional 
droop control achieve static power regulation however lacks to address frequency based 
autonomous power management. Frequency coordinating virtual impedance concept has 
been explored for the co-ordination control of an HESS in DC microgrids. Also, power 
decoupling methods to better attenuate the ripple power by filtration have been 
investigated. 
 
Lead-acid battery and supercapacitor are used to form HESS and are connected to a 
common DC bus through bi-directional DC-DC converters. Battery converter can absorb 
low frequency power variations while the high frequency power variations can be 
absorbed by supercapacitor converter. Battery supplies the long-term power demand and 
supercapacitor responds to the short-term power fluctuations during transient process in 
this proposed method. For the reduction of ripple power in battery, insertion of high 

-----
order low/high pass filters for battery and supercapacitor converters instead of lower 
order low/high pass filters have been discussed. The effectiveness of the proposed 
concept is shown through simulation and experimental results. 
 
The interconnection of DC microgrids for providing reliable power supply is particularly 
important in rural areas where utility grid is not available. Although, various researches 
are conducted in single entity, the interconnection of DC MG cluster is still novice in 
research. The interconnection of identical DC buses through tie-line and formation of 
MG clusters improves reliability of the system. To achieve power flow control through 
the tie- line, decentralized control approach has been proposed where the bus voltage of 
each MG in the MG cluster is controlled to ensure the regulation of bus voltage 
deviations. The use of decentralized control approach mitigates the issue of 
communication stress when the MG control areas are geographically distantly located. 
The decentralized control is accompanied by mode change based operation so that the 
distributed units like solar photovoltaic (PV) and energy storage system (ESS) in 
microgrids can adaptively adjust their operation modes depending upon the designated 
voltage level. By doing so, the bus voltage regulation (BVR) and power flow control is 
adjusted making each MG in the MG cluster autonomous. The power is 
generated/injected from/into MG when there is power surplus/deficit caused by supply-
demand mismatch in particular MG. Tie-line power flow takes place in a MG, from 
another MG, due to the bus voltage decrement beyond the designated level caused by 
the increment in local consumption which could not be satisfied by the local generation 
and storages. The effectiveness of proposed decentralized control has been verified 
experimentally in the cluster of two microgrids. 
 
Recently, bipolar-type DC microgrids have gained tremendous attention of researchers 
due to its advantages over conventional DC microgrids in terms of elevated level of 
quality, reliability and efficient power supply. Due to different loading in upper and 
lower terminals, voltage fluctuation from nominal value at respective terminals takes 
place and makes the system unbalanced. So, the control of parallel converters which 
interface distributed energy resources (DERs) and the topology of the converter along 
with voltage balancer play vital role in formation of efficient bipolar-type DC MG.  
 
Although many control schemes have been proposed for bipolar-type DC microgrids, 
they mainly focus on coupled microgrids with central voltage balancer. This report 
proposes an improved droop controlled bipolar-type DC MG where the voltage 
balancing control is decentralized. The use of decentralized voltage balancing circuit 

-----
supersede centralized voltage balancer failure of which deteriorates the system 
functionality. This is realized by utilizing a converter topology to boost the input voltage 
and three wire system is adopted by means of voltage balancing circuit. Two battery ESs 
are integrated to form such system. One of the problem associated with such 
decentralized voltage balancing is the control conflict between two balancing circuit 
provided for each battery to achieve same function. Droop control is implemented to 
mitigate such control conflict due to two bus voltage controllers in a system and to 
validate the decentralized control of bipolar-type DC MG for both load sharing and 
voltage balancing. 
 
The proposed control strategies for operation of DC MG incorporating rooftop PV and 
HESS, interconnection of two DC MG consisting of PV and ESs and bipolar-type DC 
MG consisting of two ESs have been verified with Piecewise linear electrical circuit 
simulation (PLECS) software. Experimental cases have been carried out to validate the 
simulation studies with laboratory scale DC microgrid(s) prototype(s) developed at 
Water and Energy Research Laboratory (WERL), School of Electrical and Electronic 
Engineering, Nanyang Technological University.  
 

-----
