Abstract 
Air conditioning and mechanical ventilation (ACMV) system, which determines the 
indoor thermal comfort and the total building energy efficiency, attracts increasing 
popularity throughout the world.  In modern society, a series of problems such as sick 
building syndrome (SBS), sensation of draught and energy waste arise with the massive 
usage of air conditioning. Prioritizing green building-ACMV system can improve 
occupants fitness level and deliver dramatic energy saving. Among the various ACMV 
schemes, the active beams (active chilled beam and active thermosiphon beam), as 
typical kinds of air-water configuration ACMV system, have outstanding performance on 
energy saving, indoor air quality improvement and space saving. However, the existing 
research is still inadequate and some technical difficulties stand as major obstacles for 
application of the air terminals especially in tropical regions. To fulfil the gaps, this thesis 
focuses on the mechanical design, modeling and performance optimization of the active 
beam terminal units. The contributions of this thesis are summarized as follows: 
1. 
A simple yet accurate hybrid model of active chilled beam terminal is 
developed with respect to air buoyancy. The model demonstrates the air 
entrainment characteristics in air chamber and the heat transfer process in 
cooling coil. Compared with the existing active chilled beam (ACB) model, 
the proposed model captures the effects of air buoyancy and further reduces 
the complexity of cooling coil model. The ACB model requires only two 
equations with nine unknown model parameters that can be identified by 
Levenberg-Marquardt method with experimental measurements. Experimental 
validation in the thermal room proves that the model is effective to predict the 
supply air flow rate and heat transfer process in a wide range of operating 
conditions. The proposed model is expected to be further examined in 
optimization and performance evaluation applications for ACB system. 
2. 
To improve the heat transfer efficiency and eliminate the condensation 
problem of the traditional ACB, the mechanical design of the terminal unit is 
optimized. Combining air entrainment effect and displacement ventilation, the 
active thermosiphon beam (ATB) is developed with innovative nozzle 
arrangement, cooling coil placement and air chamber configuration. An 
experimental comparison of ATB is conducted under a wide range of 

-----
operating conditions to estimate its thermodynamic and hydrodynamic 
performances. The comparison results indicate that 1) the cooling capacity of 
ATB is around 40% higher than ACB and PDV; 2) the ATB has better 
dehumidification ability with the sensible heat ratio of 0.42; 3) the initial cost 
of ATB system is the lowest under same cooling load requirement. More 
importantly, the experimental findings provide a guideline for the design and 
operation of ATB system.  
3. 
A model-based optimization approach for ATB system is developed to 
minimize the total energy consumption and maintain indoor thermal comfort. 
The thermal models of the terminal unit and the energy consumption models 
of the energy consuming components are established based on the 
experimental results. Accordingly, the global optimization strategy is 
formulated to find the optimal setting points of the ATB system with regard of 
total energy consumption and operating constraints. The experimental results 
indicate that the optimized operating parameters obtained by the GA can 
significantly reduce the total energy consumption while maintain the indoor 
thermal comfort. The obtained findings demonstrate that the ATB system is a 
promising ACMV system in terms of cost, thermal comfort and energy saving 
for a variety of applications. 
Publication 
Ke Ji, Wenjian Cai, Bingjie Wu, Xin Zhang, Modelling and validation of an active 
chilled beam terminal unit, Journal of Building Engineering, under review. 
Ke Ji, Wenjian Cai, Fuzzy model based predictive control for active chilled beam 
systems, in 12th IEEE Conference on Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA), 
2017, pp.807-812. 
Ke Ji, Wenjian Cai, Bingjie Wu, Performance analysis of heat transfer rate and negative 
air ion application for passive thermosiphon beam system, in 13th IEEE Conference on 
Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA), 2018, pp.1609-1614. 
Bingjie Wu, Wenjian Cai, Ke Ji, Heat source effects on thermal comfort for active chilled 
beam systems, Building and Environment, 141 (2018) 91-102. 

-----
