Grid Impact Analysis and Interval Forecasting of
Solar PV generation
Jatin Verma
Abstract
Solar PV is renowned all around the world, but its prevalence varies with a
country’s solar profile. Singapore is an island country which has solar energy
as the only promising renewable energy option. On the UN’s request to sub-
mit the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) against carbon
emissions, Singapore, as a promoter of efficient energy, has come up with an
elaborate Climate Action Plan towards carbon emission reduction. An aspiring
leap by Singapore towards 350MWp PV capacity by 2020 is on trial, which
would involve numerous PV installation projects.
The thesis at one end demonstrates the quantitative impact of PV installa-
tion on long-length transmissions, while at the other end, it showcases the use of
intelligent algorithms for forecasting future PV power output. Chapter ?? deals
with a 3.3MWp PV installation in the low voltage side of the Jurong Port distri-
bution grid, providing comprehensive steady-state analyses in different loading
scenarios. Comparison of different configurations of PV and ESS is done and it
is found that the PV installation improves the bus voltage profile, reduces line
congestion and circumvents substantial transmission losses. Moreover, during
the light loading scenario, it sends 1296A back to the grid.
Accurate predictions of solar power are important to the grid operator for
ensuring energy management from multiple sources without jeopardizing sta-
bility and to the PV plant owner for scheduling plant maintenance periods and
avoiding penalties imposed by the grid operators due to power imbalance costs.
It is evident that meteorological data like solar irradiance is more readily avail-
able than historical PV power output series with hourly samples. In this case,
indirect forecasting can be utilized where solar irradiation is predicted first,
which is followed by obtaining the PV power output using a PV performance
model of the plant. Since PV series during the day experiences lots of variations,
point forecasting can be quite uncertain. The inherent uncertainty in the point
forecasts can be quantified by associating them with a probability distribution
to form prediction intervals (PIs) which is a more interpretable representation
of uncertainty. This paper presents a probabilistic forecasting approach using
a nonparametric PI formation method based on Extreme Learning Machine.
No prior assumption on the error distribution is required for the PI forma-
1

-----
tion. Solar irradiance data from NUS geography weather station, Singapore, is
analyzed and assembled into two separate sets for better model performance.
Cross-validation and Grid search followed by Differential Evolution are utilized
to tune the hyper-parameters of the proposed model. Coverage probability and
interval scores are evaluated for the resulting PIs which show promising results.
List of Publications
1. Verma, Jatin, et al. ”Impact Study for PV and ESS integration in Jurong
Port Distribution Grid.” 2018 Asian Conference on Energy, Power and
Transportation Electrification (ACEPT). IEEE, 2018.
2. Verma, J. & Xu, Y. (2018, Nov.). ”Short Term PV Power Forecasting
using ELM and Probabilistic Prediction Interval Formation”. Paper pre-
sented at the 9th International Conference on Extreme Learning Machines
(ELM2018), Singapore.
2

-----
