Abstract
The atmospheric water vapor is generally expressed in terms of Precipitable water
vapor (PWV). It is an important indicator of water vapor climatology and variabil-
ity in the lower troposphere and related climate processes. PWV values are tradi-
tionally calculated using the radiosondes, microwave-radiometers and satellite based
instruments. These technologies have limitations in capturing PWV data with good
spatial and temporal resolutions in all weather conditions. Therefore, to overcome
these short comings, Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite signals are being
used to derive PWV values with high spatio-temporal resolution which is available
in all-weather conditions. The PWV values are derived using the delay information
from GPS signals. When GPS signals travel from a GPS satellite to a receiver on
the ground, the signal undergoes delay caused by the ionosphere and the troposphere
layers. In troposphere layer, the delay caused by the water vapor is termed as wet
delay.
PWV values are derived using these zenith wet delay (ZWD) values.
In
this thesis, a comprehensive literature review is done on the tropospheric delays and
different terminologies associated to it.
When converting the ZWD values to PWV, it involves the use of a dimensionless
constant called PI. This PI value is found to rely on a water-vapor weighted mean
temperature (Tm) value which varies according to different locations and different
seasons. It is therefore, both site and time specific. Analysis of the PI value and its
effect on the retrieved PWV from the data obtained for tropical, sub-tropical and
temperate regions show that although the PI value is time and site specific, the
change in the median value of PI for different years is minimal and is dependent
only on factors like the latitude coordinates of the particular site and the day-of-
iii

-----
the year. Therefore, using the data obtained from 174 different sites, a latitude-
coordinate and day-of-year based PI value model is proposed for the retrieval of
PWV. The proposed model has been successfully validated using data from different
databases: the IGS GPS NASA database (International Global Navigation Satel-
lite System Service, National Aeronautics and Space Administration), the IGS GPS
GGOS database (Geodetic Observing System) and the very-long-baseline interfer-
ometry (VLBI) database. Results show a strong agreement between PWV values
calculated using the proposed model and that calculated using the temperature de-
pendent models with 99%, 98% and 93% of error within ±1 mm for IGS GPS NASA,
IGS GPS GGOS and VLBI databases, respectively. Moreover, the proposed model
allows for the ease of PWV retrieval.
With the rapid deployment of the GPS stations, many researchers are studying
the PWV values and its usefulness in prediction of a rainfall event. In literature, there
are long term rainfall prediction algorithms that are proposed using the data from
tropical and sub-tropical stations. We review these algorithms and apply on the data
from tropical region. It was found that the absolute value of PWV plays an important
role in long term rainfall prediction, unlike temperate and sub-tropical region. In
addition to the long term rain forecasting, a simple algorithm is proposed to perform
the nowcasting of a rainfall event in the tropical region.
The algorithm applies
GPS-derived PWV values and its second derivative for the short-term prediction
of rainfall. The proposed algorithm incorporates the seasonal dependency of PWV
values for the prediction of a rain event in the coming 5 minutes based on the past
30 minutes of PWV data. This proposed algorithm is based on the statistical study
of 4 years of PWV and rainfall data from a station in Singapore and is validated
using 2 years of independent data for the same station. The results show that the
algorithm can achieve an average true detection rate and a false alarm rate of 87.7
% and 38.6 % respectively. To analyze the applicability of the proposed algorithm,
further validations are done using 1 year of data from one independent station from
Singapore and 2 years of data from one station from Brazil. It is shown that the
proposed algorithm performs well for both the independent stations. For the station
from Brazil, the average true detection and false alarm rates are around 84.7 % and
iv

-----
37 % respectively. All these observations are compared to the existing literature and
it is concluded that the proposed algorithm is reliable and works well with a good
detection rate for tropical region.
It has been pointed out that the occurrence of rainfall is dependent on myriad of
atmospheric parameters. Thus, in this thesis, we also systematically analyze various
parameters that affect the precipitation in the atmosphere. Different ground based
weather features like Temperature, Relative Humidity, Dew Point, Solar Radiation,
PWV along with the Seasonal and the Diurnal features are identified and a detailed
feature correlation study is presented.
It has been shown that all features play
a significant role in rainfall classification, whereas only a few parameters; PWV ,
Solar Radiation, Seasonal and Diurnal features stand out for the rainfall prediction
applications. Therefore, an optimum set of features are used in a data-driven machine
learning algorithm for rainfall prediction. The train/test results using a four year
(2012-2015) database show a true detection rate of 83.0%, false alarm rate of 24.0%,
and an overall accuracy of 76.0%. When these results are compared to the existing
literature, which shows the true detection and false alarm rates of 87.7% and 38.6%
respectively, our proposed implementation shows a significant drop of up to 14.6%
in the false alarm rates for rainfall prediction.
In summary, in this thesis, we have studied the GPS signal delays and related
processes in detail. We have proposed a simplified PI model that is globally applica-
ble, easy to implement and has good resolution. We have analyzed different rainfall
prediction algorithms using data from the tropical region and proposed a rainfall
nowcasting algorithm that works with better accuracy for stations from the tropical
region. We have implemented a data-driven approach that uses other meteorological
parameters to improve the rainfall prediction. We believe that the models and algo-
rithms proposed in this thesis will assist researchers in remote sensing and satellite
communication applications.
v

-----
