 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Multi-mode Sensor:  
Merge an Ambient Light Sensor 
into a CMOS Image Sensor 
 
 
 
 
WANG YUE 
G1403284K 
 
 
 
 
School of Electrical & Electronic Engineering 
 
 
 
A thesis submitted to the Nanyang Technological University 
in partial fulfilment of the requirement for the degree of 
Master of Engineering 
 
 
 
May, 2016 

-----
i 
 
Abstract 
Ambient light sensors (ALSs) are quite often used in the portable electronic devices. 
In a smartphone, the ALS enables automatic control of display backlight brightness 
over a wide range of illumination conditions from a dark environment to direct 
sunlight. The control reduces the power consumption and improves visibility under 
varying lighting conditions. 
The conventional ALS consists of two parts: photodetectors and conversion circuits. 
A typical conversion circuit can be current-mode analog-to-digital convertor (ADC); 
pulse-width modulation (PWM) module; or pulse-frequency modulation (PFM) 
module. In this thesis, a new conversion circuit is proposed. The proposed ADC 
employs a two-step architecture combined with the time-domain measurement 
technique. A current-mode ADC is adopted as the coarse ADC. The residue current 
left by the coarse A/D conversion is finely quantized by a PWM module. The 
proposed architecture can improve the accuracy of detection, since PWM module can 
correct the possible coarse conversion errors. Meanwhile, it can shorten the 
conversion time, since the input current of the PWM module is compressed by the 
coarse ADC into a small range. 
A multi-mode sensor can be developed by merging the proposed ALS into a CMOS 
image sensor (CIS). Since power consumption plays an important role in CIS, a low-
power application can be achieved by separating the power supply and switching 
them in different modes. In other words, during ambient light sensing, the circuits for 
picture/video readout are in standby mode and do not consume power; and vice versa. 
The thesis presents the design of the proposed multi-mode sensor. The chip with 
64×
64 pixel array is implemented in AMS 0.35 µ
m 2P4M CMOS technology. In the 
following sections of the thesis, it will show the whole design flow of the proposed 
sensor chip. 

-----
