Thesis: Evaluation of Key Indexes and Characteristics of 
Lithium-Ion Battery for Management in Building Smart Grid  
Li Kaiyuan G1401060E 
Abstract 
Energy storage has been considered as an imperative enabling technology to 
improve the energy sustainability in the traditional building power grids. Among all 
the energy storage techniques, Li-ion based rechargeable batteries are recognized to 
be the most promising solution, due to their outperformed performance such as high 
gravimetric and volumetric energy density, great cycle life, enhanced safety and low 
self-discharge rate. With the increasing vehicle-to-grid synergy and renewable 
energy sources imports, Li-ion batteries are positioned uniquely to act a crucial role. 
Despite the remarkable progress achieved in the material and chemistry of Li-ion 
batteries, that battery systems are always oversized and underused still remains a 
problem, i.e., 20%-40% excess energy and capacity was idle, and evoking 
superfluous weight and volume augment, as well as purchasing costs. Attenuation 
of this conservatism has necessitated and efficient and intelligent battery 
management system (BMS), where the key indexes, e.g., state of charge (SOC), 
state of health (SOH), state of energy (SOE), are monitored precisely on the fly. In 
particular, proper BMSs facilitate avoiding premature battery failure and 
catastrophic hazards, and therefore enhancing the durability, efficiency, and 
reliability of Li-ion battery systems. 
Motivation of this research work is to scrutinize and to achieve a holistic 
understanding of the characteristics and electrical behaviors of Li-ion type battery 
utilized as energy storage applications in the building environment, and the overall 
challenge the author trying to solve is to design and develop an intelligent and 
efficient battery management system for Li-ion batteries used as energy storage 
devices in built environment, thus propelling the thriving development of the energy 

-----
sustainability as a pivotal pillar. In the past three years’ research, characteristics of 
the Li-ion batteries such as the energy efficiency, modelling, estimations of SOC, 
SOE, SOH, and instantaneous terminal voltage responses were studied. 
Additionally, the author also paid attention to fast charging technique of Li-ion 
batteries as an emerging technology. 
Chapter 1 is an introduction of the energy storage technology, battery energy 
storage systems, and Li-ion battery. Chapter 2 is the literature review part and 
introduces the related research and engineering proceedings of Li-ion battery as 
energy storage device in grid applications. In specific, related works of energy 
efficiency, modelling, estimation of SOC, SOH, SOE of Li-ion battery are reviewed 
in detail. Meanwhile, as a promising and booming technique, fast charging 
technique for Li-ion battery is also reviewed. 
In Chapter 3 the energy efficiency of Li-ion battery used as energy storage 
systems in built environment is investigated based on electrical and electrochemical 
theory, for both single cell and a 10-cell battery pack. The equations and the 
calculation procedures of the energy efficiency of Li-ion battery are provided. The 
proposed method and the results could be used for the determination of the energy 
efficiency of the Li-ion battery in the cases of high-current fast charging 
applications. This chapter serves as a preliminary study of the electrical 
characteristics and behaviors of Li-ion batteries. 
Chapter 4 investigates the estimation of the online SOH of Li-ion batteries 
exploited as energy storage devices in a practical smart grid. Realistic profiles of 
the smart grid such as load current and temperature are utilized in this study. Two 
approaches for online SOH estimation are developed and the validation tests verify 
the good efficacy and robustness of both the approaches. Moreover, we also study 
the capacity degradation of the Li-ion batteries from the electrical perspective and 
the experimental results show that, at least for the type of Li-ion batteries that are 
tested, their capacity fade extent is not correlated with the ageing conditions, which 
is generally in line with the conclusion of some research works in the literature 
emphasizing on electro-chemistry. This inference is of great significance in both the 

-----
industrial and research work on the capacity degradation of Li-ion batteries, in light 
of that almost all the ageing models of Li-ion battery use the accelerated ageing test 
profile for cycling. 
Chapter 5 focuses on another two critical indexes of the battery system, i.e., the 
SOC and SOE. SOC depicts the residual available capacity of the battery, while 
SOE is introduced recently for better description of the battery residual assessable 
energy and energy state. SOE generally differs from SOC by considering energy 
throughput of the battery more directly. In actual battery operations, the dramatic 
variation of load current puts forward challenges to the energy management of 
batteries. In the SOE estimation, energy loss in the electrochemical reactions, the 
internal resistance, and the decrease of battery’s open circuit voltage are considered 
more comprehensively. It is suggested, therefore, that a better analogue to the extent 
of the energy throughout and runtime of the practical battery-based energy storage 
devices is perhaps the measure of battery energy, thus the index of SOE. Three 
hybrid battery models of Li-ion batteries, one for online SOE and SOC estimation 
based on the kinetic and electrical circuit battery models, one aiming at prediction 
of the terminal voltage responses and the SOE via the combination of an analytical 
and an electrical battery model, another for terminal voltage and SOE estimation by 
combining an electrochemical and an electrical model are presented. All the three 
models are capable of estimating the SOE and residual endurance time of the Li-ion 
batteries with high accuracy and reliability, based on the results of the validation 
tests. 
Last but not least in Chapter 6, a charger for fast charging a lithium titanate (LTO) 
type battery cell (or cell strings connected in series and parallel) with accurate 
estimation of online SOC is disclosed. The charge system includes: a circuit for 
charging the LTO battery via the traditional constant current constant voltage 
(CCCV) way, and the monitor system includes monitoring of cell’s voltage, current, 
surface temperature and particularly the online SOC based on a previously unknown 
feature in LTO cell’s surface temperature-SOC characteristic which is discovered 
recently. Differentiating from the prior arts, the invented fast charger is able to 

-----
provide precious estimation of the cell’s online SOC, and the LTO batteries are 
expected to be fast charged safely to at least 90% SOC with precious online SOC 
identification, thus providing more confidence and better user friendliness for 
consumers in utilizing fast charging on their energy storage devices. 
Finally, the conclusion is given in Chapter 7 and the future work is also addressed. 
After the careful scrutinization of the related literature, the electrical characteristic 
and behaviors of Li-ion batteries utilized as energy storage devices in built 
environment such as, study on energy efficiency, online estimation of SOH, SOC, 
SOE, and terminal voltage responses, are deeply investigated. Plenty of cells have 
been cycled in the laboratory under realistic load condition and large amounts of 
experimental data of diverse load and ambient temperature profile were collected in 
the laboratory for model construction and validation processes. This multi-cell 
setting provides a more valuable and significant scenario than the conventional 
single-cell setting. The author has basically realized the objectives of the holistic 
understanding and the design of the intelligent and efficient battery management 
system. Furthermore, the study and the demonstration of the novel fast charger for 
the LTO type batteries in Chapter 6 helps to propel the development of the fast 
charge technique of Li-ion batteries as a thriving area of research in both academic 
and industrial sectors.  
The proposed future work includes the development of the online battery 
estimators for SOH, SOE, and SOC with less computational burdens and higher 
precision. Further, influences on the battery behaviors and characters of the factors 
such as the ageing extent of the battery, the temperature, the initial status, and the 
load condition will be studied more thoroughly. The influencing factors for cycle-
ageing of Li-ion batteries will be explored, such as the battery chemistry, type, rated 
capacity and voltage, rest time, etc. In addition, other brands of LTO batteries and 
other types of Li-ion batteries will also be tested in future work in terms of fast 
charging technique and applications. 

-----
