Positive and Unlabeled Learning for Anomaly Detection
ZHANG JIAQI
Supervisor: Assoc Prof. Yuan Junsong
Co-Supervisor: Prof. Tan Yap-Peng
February 11, 2018
Abstract
Anomaly detection is of great interest to big data applications, and both supervised and
unsupervised learning methods have been applied for anomaly detection. However, it still re-
mains a challenging problem for machine learning-based methods because of the difficulty of
obtaining anomaly data for training, which is usually rare, diversely distributed, and difficult
to collect. Thus it is difficult for supervised learning to acquire training data while for unsu-
pervised learning, the performance may not be satisfactory due to the lack of labeled training
data.
To address the challenge, we propose a hybrid solution by applying Positive and Unlabeled
(PU) Learning for anomaly detection problem. As a semi-supervised method, only normal
(positive) data and unlabeled data (could be positive or negative) are required by the proposed
method for anomaly detection. We start by using a linear model to extract the most reliable
negative instances followed by an iterative self-learning process to add reliable instances with
different speeds. Furthermore, we adopt boosting in the self-learning process to advantageously
exploit the instability characteristic of PU learning when feedback is available. The classifiers
in self-learning process are weighted combined based on the estimated error rate to build the fi-
nal classifier. Our proposed methods are verified on several benchmark datasets and outperform
existing methods under different conditions.
1
Publications
1. Jiaqi Zhang, Zhenzhen Wang, Junsong Wang, Tap-Peng Tan ”Positive and Unlabeled Learn-
ing for Anomaly Detection with Multi-features”, acceptted by ACM MM Conference, 2017.
2. Jiaqi Zhang, Zhenzhen Wang, Jingjing Meng, Tap-Peng Tan, Junsong Wang ”Boosting Posi-
tive and Unlabeled Learning for Anomaly Detection with Multi-features”, submitted to IEEE
Transactions on Multimedia.
1

-----
