DIAGNOSTICS OF FAULTS IN ROTATING ELECTRIC MACHINERY USING WIRELESS SENSORS 
ABSTRACT 
In critical applications utilizing rotating electrical machines, condition-monitoring systems (CMS) are 
deployed to prevent unexpected breakdown and schedule maintenance. The conventional CMS for 
rotating electrical machines are predominantly based on externally available signals, while the internal 
signals, especially on the rotor, remain relatively unexplored. To access these internal signals, wireless 
sensors offer an effective solution in terms of cost and ease of deployment. This opens up an 
opportunity to explore invasive condition monitoring systems for electrical machines. This thesis 
presents the development of a wireless sensor based CMS to diagnose multiple electrical faults in a 
brushless synchronous generator (BLSG).  BLSGs are widely used for electrical power generation in 
marine, aerospace and industrial applications.   
A feasibility study is conducted to evaluate the applicability for utilizing wireless RF as communication 
means inside an electrical machine. Based on the study it is concluded that the wireless link quality 
metrics do not show any deterioration inside the machine and in fact, are enhanced compared to 
indoor environment. With the confidence from the experimental feasibility study, a rotor mounted 
wireless sensing system is developed for a 14 KVA BLSG test bed. The test rig is capable of emulating 
stator armature faults, rotor field winding faults and rotating rectifier diode faults and simultaneously 
measuring rotor electrical signals during machine operation. 
To identify the characteristic electrical fault signatures under stator armature inter-turn, rotor field 
inter-turn and rectifier diode faults, a phase domain model of a salient pole BLSG is developed. 
Modified-Winding Function Approach is utilized to compute the inductances of the main generator 
and exciter generator. The developed model is able to come close to replicating the actual machine 
behavior during healthy state and progression of the faults.  Based on the model, it is found that the 
current state of art indicators may not be suitable for reliable diagnosis of multiple faults. A new set 
of fault indicators based on rotor based electrical signatures is proposed and its effectiveness for fault 
diagnosis under multiple fault conditions is presented with experimental validation. 
A comparison of the conventional fault signatures based on stator terminal signals and external casing 
vibration with the invasive electrical signals from rotor mounted wireless sensors is presented. To 
enable this comparison under different fault conditions, a normalized fault severity metric is 
introduced. From the investigation, the rotor based electrical signal measurements obtained through 
a wireless sensor is found to be more effective in tracking the evolution of a fault. A hybrid fault 
diagnosis scheme, based on the fusion of conventional and invasive fault signatures is presented. 
Based on this study, it is found that the overall diagnostic performance is improved compared to the 
schemes that only rely on either non-invasive or invasive fault signatures.  
The present work is focused on identifying fault signatures based on internal electrical signals. An 
investigation into other key physical quantities such as thermal, magnetic and mechanical needs to be 
carried out. The selection of measurements (noninvasive and invasive) required for reliable diagnosis 
can be formulated as an optimization problem. This will help in identifying the minimum set of 
measurements required to achieve high diagnostic accuracy. The fault severity metrics proposed in 
this thesis captures the resultant effect of the fault on the machine. Estimating the physical fault 
severity will aid in the better assessment of the machine’s condition and in prognosis, for calculating 
the remaining useful life.  
 

-----
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS 
Journal Articles: 
P. S. Kumar, L. Xie, B. H. Soong, and M. Y. Lee, “Feasibility for utilizing IEEE 802.15.4 Compliant radios 
inside rotating electrical machines for wireless condition monitoring applications,” IEEE Sensors 
Journal, vol. PP, no. 99, p. 1, 2018. [Early Access] 
Conference Articles: 
P. S. Kumar, L. Xie, M.S.M. Halick, and V. Vaiyapuri, “Online Stator End Winding Thermography using 
Infrared Sensor Array,” in the  43rd Annual IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition 
(APEC), 2018. [Presented; to be published in IEEExplore] 
P. S. Kumar, L. Xie, K. Thiha, B.-H. Soong, V. Vaiyapuri, and S. Nadarajan, “Rotor mounted wireless 
sensors for condition monitoring of brushless synchronous generator,” in Industrial Electronics 
Society, IECON 2017-43rd Annual Conference of the IEEE. IEEE, 2017, pp. 3221–3226. 
P. S. Kumar, L. Xie, and B. H. Soong, “Feasibility of wireless RF communication inside rotating electrical 
machines for condition monitoring applications,” in Proc. 19th Int. Conf. Electrical Machines and 
Systems (ICEMS), Nov. 2016, pp. 1–6.  
P. S. Kumar, Y. Chen, M. Y. Lee, S. Nadarajan, and L. Xie, “Modified winding function approach to stator 
fault modelling of synchronous generator,” in Proc. 12th IEEE Int. Conf. Control and Automation 
(ICCA), Jun. 2016, pp. 161–166. 

-----
