Thesis title 
Planar and Non-Gold Metal Stacks Processes and 
Conduction Mechanisms for AlGaN/GaN High-electron-
mobility Transistors on Silicon 
  
Abstract 
          AlGaN/GaN high-electron-mobility transistors (HEMTs) have demonstrated 
great potentials in high voltage and high frequency applications due to the advantage 
in their intrinsic material properties such as wide band gap, high electron saturation 
velocity, high sheet carrier density, etc. Conventionally, AlGaN/GaN HEMTs are 
realized in III-V fabrication line using the processes that cannot be used in Si CMOS 
line, e.g. mesa isolation, gold-based ohmic contacts and gate electrodes etc.  
          With the advances of epitaxial growth technology, the crack-free AlGaN/GaN 
heterostructure can be realized in large diameter (200 mm) Si substrate with low 
wafer bowing values, which provides the possibility of fabricating devices with high 
throughput to satisfy the rapidly increased market of GaN electronics. In recent years, 
CMOS-compatible processes have received considerable attentions. This approach 
allows high-volume low-cost fabrication of AlGaN/GaN HEMTs by utilizing the 
existing Si foundries. Also, the CMOS-compatible processes offer the opportunity of 
on-chip integration of GaN devices with Si integrated circuits (ICs).  
          In this thesis, the focus is to develop the key process modules which will be 
CMOS compatible for AlGaN/GaN HEMTs. The three process modules include 
planar isolation by ion-implantation, non-gold ohmic contact, and non-gold Schottky 
gate. In addition, the conduction mechanisms and its physical origin are also 

-----
systematically analyzed to understand the impact of developed processes to the 
characteristics of fabricated AlGaN/GaN HEMTs on Si substrate.  
          The planar isolation is achieved in AlGaN/GaN HEMTs using multi-energy 
ultra-heavy 131Xe+ ion-implantation. About an order of magnitude lower buffer 
leakage current, and an order of magnitude higher buffer sheet resistance and 
ON/OFF current ratio are observed in the implant-isolated HEMTs when compared to 
the conventional mesa-isolated HEMTs. The Arrhenius plot reveals an activation 
energy (0.513 eV) that belongs to the lattice damage caused by heavy ions, which is 
the origin of the high resistivity in the implanted region. The implant-isolated 
AlGaN/GaN HEMTs exhibit comparable DC output and transfer characteristics to the 
mesa-isolated HEMTs. Due to the elimination of leakage paths at the mesa side wall, 
the buffer breakdown voltage is almost not changed with and without Si3N4 
passivation, the OFF-state breakdown voltage is also improved and the gate leakage 
current is reduced.  
          The reproducible non-gold ohmic contacts are realized by Ta/Si/Ti/Al/Ni/Ta 
metal stacks with a low contact resistance (~0.22 Ω·mm) and a smooth surface 
morphology. The low contact resistance is attributed to the formation of low work 
function Titanium Silicides (TiSix) at the metal-semiconductor (M-S) interface. As the 
AlGaN/GaN epi-layers are protected by the refractory bottom-Ta layer, the metal 
stacks do not react with (Al)GaN. Hence, the conduction mechanism of AlGaN/GaN 
HEMTs with our non-gold metal stacks is confirmed to be thermionic emission (TE) 
through a low energy barrier (~0.113 eV) at the M-S interface, which is different from 
the thermionic-field emission (TFE) observed in conventional gold-based ohmic 
contacts.  

-----
          The non-gold Schottky gate is realized by sputtered TiN with an improved 
Schottky barrier height (SBH ~1.1 eV) as compared to other reported TiN-based gates. 
The improvement of SBH may be due to the incorporation of oxygen, the surface 
crystal orientation, or the relatively high N2 ratio in the total gas flow. The study on 
gate leakage current reveals that the conduction mechanism is dominated by Poole-
Frenkel emission at low reverse bias (-3.2 V < VR < 0) through an interface state of 
0.53 eV, and by trap-assisted tunneling at high reverse bias (-20 V < VR < -3.2 V) 
through another interface state of ~0.115 eV. The AlGaN/GaN HEMTs with sputtered 
TiN gate demonstrate comparable DC output and transfer characteristics and 
dynamic/static ON-resistance ratio, improved OFF-state breakdown voltage, and 
reduced gate leakage current as compare to the device with conventional Ni/Au gate.  
          In summary, three important and challenging process modules in developing 
CMOS-compatible processes for the fabrication of AlGaN/GaN HEMTs on Silicon 
substrate have been systematically studied and reported in this thesis. The multi-
energy ultra-heavy 131Xe+ implantation, ohmic contacts with non-gold metal stacks 
(Ta/Si/Ti/Al/Ni/Ta), and non-gold Schottky gate (sputtered TiN) are demonstrated 
with improved device performance. The conduction mechanism of both ohmic and 
Schottky contacts is also systematically studied. The findings in this thesis provide 
valuable solutions for the development of CMOS-compatible processes, which can be 
potentially used for the high-volume and low-cost fabrication of AlGaN/GaN HEMTs 
in Si foundries for commercial applications.  
     

-----
