 
Studies on GaN HEMT based gas sensors for low 
concentrations of NO2 and NH3. 
 
Abstract 
 
In recent decades, the demand for gas sensors has increased rapidly 
because of their large scale use in medical instruments, automobiles 
and laboratories. For example, nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and ammonia 
(NH3) are found to be among the main constituents of exhaust gases 
and harmful air contaminants. Inhalation and long-term exposure of 
these gases can cause health issues and sometimes result in life 
threatening conditions. Hence, there is a need to detect low 
concentrations of NO2 and NH3. Recently, several wide band gap 
materials have attracted great interest for application in gas sensing to 
mitigate some of the limitations associated with metal oxide, polymer 
and electrochemical cell based sensors. The investigated materials 
include ZnO, diamond, and GaN and its alloys.  
GaN based sensors are gaining momentum due to their unique 
properties, such as high electron mobility, mechanical stability and wide 
band gap that allows high thermal resistance and the ability to withstand 
harsh 
chemicals, 
gaseous 
and 
the 
corrosive 
environments. 
Furthermore, AlGaN/GaN high electron mobility transistors (HEMTs) are 

-----
extremely sensitive to the surface charge and variations in the 
environmental conditions due to the proximity of 2DEG to the sensing 
surface and their high sheet carrier concentration (on the order of 1013 
cm-2), thereby enabling sensing of the gases at low concentrations. This 
thesis presents the fabrication and characterization of GaN HEMT 
based gas sensors that can detect low concentrations of NO2 and NH3 
for a large range of concentrations and a wide range of temperatures. 
The sensing mechanism corresponding to the temperature dependent 
response of these gases has been explained in detail. 
AlGaN/GaN HEMT heterostructure was grown on 100 mm diameter Si 
(111) substrate using metal organic chemical vapour deposition 
(MOCVD). The AlGaN/GaN HEMT based sensors were fabricated with 
interdigitated electrodes using Ti/Al/Ni/Au (20/120/40/50 nm) metal 
stack, followed by the rapid thermal annealing at 825 ºC under nitrogen 
ambient for 30 sec. The contact resistance (Rc) value of <1 Ω.mm was 
achieved, which confirms the good quality of the ohmic contacts. 
Subsequently, Ti/Au (25/300 nm) pad layer for wire bonding was 
deposited. It was followed by the deposition of different functionalization 
layers such as Pt, Pd and Ag in the open gate region. The fabricated 
devices were wire bonded to a 16-pin dual in-line package (DIP) for the 
gas sensing applications. 
 

-----
The Pt/AlGaN/GaN HEMT based sensors exhibited a change in current 
(ΔI) of 0.5 mA with sensitivity of 1.2 % for 10 ppm NO2 at room 
temperature (RT) and recovered at an elevated temperature (300 °C). 
The heating induced gas desorption led to the recovery of the sensor at 
an elevated temperature. The sensitivity increased with the increase in 
relative humidity (0 to 90%) at RT. The mechanisms for current 
decrease during the exposure of the gas and influence of relative 
humidity on NO2 sensitivity were investigated. The high sensitivity of   
5.5 % with a corresponding ΔI of 1.8 mA was achieved for 10 ppm NO2 
concentration at 300 °C, which is higher than the reported value with 
Pt/AlGaN/GaN HEMT based sensors under similar measurement 
conditions. The large surface area of the interdigitated electrodes and 
the catalytic property of platinum functionalization layer enabled high 
sensitivity for low NO2 concentrations of < 10 ppm. A rapid response of 
less than 2 min. with a recovery time of less than 5 min. was obtained 
for all the concentrations. The behaviour of various sensor metrics such 
as sensitivity, response time and recovery time were studied at different 
temperatures. The activation energy values of 0.33 eV/molecule and 
0.64 eV/molecule were obtained for response time (Ea) and recovery 
time (Ed), respectively. Ea and Ed are the activation energies of 
adsorption (chemisorption of O- with adsorption sites at the top surface) 
and desorption (dissociation of the existing chemical bond), respectively. 
Arrhenius plot of sensitivity was obtained for 10 ppm NO2. The activation 

-----
energy of 0.085 eV/molecule was obtained for NO2 sensing using 
AlGaN/GaN HEMT with Pt functionalization layer. This is the energy of 
the rate-limiting step of chemisorption of O- ions, in which negative 
charge is transferred to the metal/semiconductor interface. 
 
NH3 sensing using AlGaN/GaN HEMT based gas sensors with Pt 
functionalization layer and other novel functionalization layers such as 
Pd and Ag was demonstrated over a wide temperature range of          
30-275 °C. Pt/AlGaN/GaN HEMT exhibited the sensitivity of 0.51 % and 
0.83 % for 50 ppm NH3 at 30 °C and 275 °C, respectively. A measurable 
ΔI of 143 µA and sensitivity of 0.19 % were obtained for a low NH3 
concentration of 10 ppm, which is the lowest NH3 concentration sensed 
at RT by Pt/AlGaN/GaN HEMT. The current decreased (ΔI is negative) 
when the sensor was exposed to different concentrations of NH3 at RT 
while it increased (ΔI is positive) above 200 °C. At low temperature     
(30 °C), NH3 is adsorbed in a molecular form on Pt surface and donates 
free electrons to produce negative potential at the Pt/AlGaN interface 
leading to a decrease in the current. However, NH3 gets dissociated into 
positively charged hydrogen ions (H+) at high-temperature (>200 °C). 
This results in positive surface potential causing an increase in the 
current. The behaviour of various sensor metrics such as sensitivity, 
response time and recovery time were compared for Pt, Pd and Ag 
functionalization layers. The sensor with the Pd functionalization layer 

-----
exhibited higher sensitivity at 275 °C as compared to the other sensors 
due to higher hydrogen affinity of Pd. The sensor with the Ag 
functionalization layer was found to respond quickly to the change in 
NH3 concentration and demonstrated faster response time and recovery 
time (< 3 min) as compared to other sensors using Pt and Pd. This is 
attributed to the oxidized Ag surface which creates a favourable site for 
the adsorption of NH3 gas. After adsorption, charge transfer from NH3 to 
Ag occurs quickly leading to faster response and recovery times. 
 
Having optimized the AlGaN/GaN HEMT based sensors, further efforts 
were made to investigate novel Pt/AlN/GaN/AlN HEMTs for NO2 and 
NH3 sensing. AlN/GaN/AlN HEMT heterostructures were grown on SiC 
substrate using molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). A sensitivity of 0.76 % 
with a corresponding ΔI of 472 µA was obtained for 10 ppm NO2, which 
is lower than that obtained for Pt/AlGaN/GaN HEMT based sensor. 
However, the Pt/AlN/GaN/AlN HEMT based sensor was found to 
respond quickly to the change in the NO2 concentration. There was an 
improvement in the response time from 56 sec to 32 sec for 10 ppm 
NO2. Since the time taken for the charge transport from the interface to 
2DEG is less due to the lower barrier thickness (7 nm), it  results in the 
decreased value of response time. 

-----
