Abstract 
Renewable energy sources (RESs) have been extensively employed to replace fossil 
fuels for reducing carbon footprints. Since RESs are normally coupled to the power 
grid by fast-response power converters without providing any inertia, the power system 
inertia generated by synchronous generators continues to decrease, making modern 
power systems sensitive to frequency events. As a result, undesirable load-shedding, 
cascading failures, or even large-scale blackouts may occur under severe frequency 
events. In other words, the performances of frequency regulation will be weakened due 
to the increased shares of renewable energy generation, and the grid frequency would 
be more sensitive to the disturbance caused by the imbalance between generation and 
demand in the power system. 
To address the inertia concerns, the focus of this research topic is to improve the 
frequency regulation and enhance the power system inertia by emulating the inertia 
through power electronic converters. Conventionally, the straight-forward way is to 
run extra synchronous generators, but the high operation costs would be the biggest 
concern. Instead of running extra synchronous generators or other hardware equipment, 
several control strategies have been proposed for inertia emulation by grid-connected 
power converters. These methods will not bring any extra hardware, and with the 
proposed methods, the power system inertia would be high enough so that the grid 
frequency would be stable even with high penetration levels of RESs. 
All the proposed control algorithms have been verified in simulation using MATLAB 
/ SIMULINK and PLECS. The down-scale experimental test bed has been built for 
validating the feasibility of the proposed methods.  
 
 

-----
Publications 
J. Fang, R. Zhang, H. Li, and Y. Tang, “Inertia enhancement by gird-connected power 
converters with frequency-locked-loops for frequency derivative estimation,” in Proc. 
PESGM 2018, Portland, Oregon, USA, 5–9 Aug. 2018. 
J. Fang, R. Zhang, H. Li, and Y. Tang, "Frequency Derivative-based Inertia 
Enhancement by Grid-Connected Power Converters with a Frequency-Locked-Loop," 
IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, pp. 1-1, 2018. 
R. Zhang, J. Fang, H. Li, and Y. Tang, “Inertia emulation through supercapacitor 
energy storage systems,” in Proc. ICPE 2019-ECCE Asia, Bexco, Bushan, Korean, 27–
31 May 2019, under review. 
 

-----
