Emerging Interconnect Reliability 
Abstract 
Interconnects are essential for the electrical connection of integrated circuits (IC), therefore 
its quality and reliability are of utmost importance. The continued scaling of devices and the 
desire for higher functionality and capability has led to the exploration for new interconnect 
technologies and new materials in order to enhance chip performances. One of the most widely 
used interconnect method by the IC manufacturing industry is wire bonding. In order to remain 
competitive and remain as one of the key interconnect technologies available, copper (Cu) 
wires have recently been adopted to replace gold (Au) due to its lower costs and more desirable 
material properties. Apart from Cu wire bonding, through silicon via (TSV) technology has 
also in recent years, been actively pursued and has become one of the key enablers for three 
dimensional (3D) IC. It allows for vertical interconnection of dies, which not only overcome 
spatial limitations, but also enables the possibility of heterogeneous integration to enhance 
functionality and performance. Apart from all the advantages that Cu wire bonding and TSV 
interconnect technology has to offer, there are also several reliability concerns that have not 
been well addressed and require further study. Therefore, the reliability of Cu wire bonding and 
the reliability of Cu TSV will be studied in this work.  
 
In the first part, wire bonding and its reliability are discussed. The migration to Cu wire 
from Au has resulted in more stringent and narrower process window. During the wire bonding 
process, several parameters need to be well controlled in order to achieve a well-bonded wire. 
Current industrial practices to evaluate wire bond quality after the packaging and assembly 
process are either done destructively which may result in loss of critical information, or non-
destructively which are limited by resolution, cost and time. In this work, Cu wire bonds are 
subjected to accelerated stress test of temperature cycling (TC) -65/175°C up to 700 cycles. 
The quality and reliability of the bonded Cu wires are then being evaluated by electrical means 
which are non-destructive, fast and accurate. This makes it suitable for use in the production 
line for wire bond quality evaluation. Based on electrical measurement results, the change in 
resistance increases with temperature cycles, and it is significant between 600 and 700 cycles 
with a percentage increase of more than 300%. Cu wires evaluated using the electrical 
measurement results also show that there is a good correlation with the conventional pull test 
wire assessment method, where an increase in resistance resulted with a decrease in pull 
strength. However, the rate of change in pull strength was found to be more than 2 times slower 
for wires breaking at the span as compared to wires breaking at the neck region. This suggests 
that the electrical method could be more sensitive to detect degradation at the wire span region 
as compared to the pull test wire method. The electrical method was also able to detect 
degraded wires, which is verified with failure analysis results. On the other hand, there is no 
degradation on the bond pad interface observed after 700 cycles of TC test as Cu remnant was 
left behind on the pad after shear test. 
 
In the second part, TSV interconnect technology and its reliability is discussed. Currently, 
most studies concentrate on reliability studies under mild and less harsh stress conditions as 
compared to the automotive stress test standards. In this work, qualification stress test of 
automotive standards were performed on TSV structures that are fabricated using optimized 
processes. Experimental results reveal that the leakage current performance after accelerated 
stress test was dependent on the dielectric liner material, as well as the presence of silicon 
nitride (Si3N4) deposition above the TSV structures which was used to emulate die stacking. 

-----
Preliminary results show that the leakage current is higher for low-k liner TSV structures as 
compared to the plasma enhanced tetraethylorthosilicate (PETEOS) liner TSV structures. This 
is expected due to the higher porosity of low-k dielectric. Results also reveal that permanent 
dielectric breakdown was observed for TSV structures that were suppressed by a layer of Si3N4 
after accelerated stress test. On the other hand, no breakdown was observed for TSV structures 
without the existence of the Si3N4 layer suggesting that there might be thermomechanical stress 
induced on the suppressed TSV structure. Failure analysis was done on a PETEOS liner TSV 
sample with decreasing leakage trend after HTS 225 °C for 1000hrs. It was found that there 
was severe Cu protrusion as much as 4.7 um above the wafer surface, causing voids within the 
TSV, in the dielectric layer, as well as delamination between the Cu TSV and dielectric liner 
interface. As Cu diffuses readily in dielectric layer and the silicon substrate, a non-destructive 
electrical characterization was performed to detect copper migration in a degraded TSV 
structure after various stress conditions such as at an elevated temperature, temperature cycling 
and electrical biasing. The stress test were performed either independently without electrical 
bias or in a combination with electrical bias for comparison. Variations in the electrical 
characteristics in the form of a change in the inversion capacitance of a C-V curve reflects the 
presence of copper ions within the dielectric layer. Physical failure analysis was performed and 
verified the presence of migrated copper, correlating to the changes observed in the electrical 
characteristics. Various conduction mechanisms were fitted with experimental data before and 
after degradation and it was deduced that the Poole-Frenkel conduction mechanism is the 
dominant mechanism. However, this is dependent on the oxidation state of copper, which was 
verified to change over time from Cu2O to CuO by x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).  
 
In the third part, with the understanding of the change in the non-destructive electrical 
characteristics when Cu ions are present in the dielectric layer, attempts were made to 
demonstrate the ability to monitor and control the transport of Cu ions by applying an 
appropriate E-field, which is useful for subsequent reliability assessment. Time dependent 
dielectric breakdown (TDDB) experiments were then performed and found that the presence 
of copper could play different roles in the dielectric and may accelerate or decelerate time to 
failure. TDDB lifetime models were fitted experimentally and is found to be in good agreement 
to the √𝐸 model. The √𝐸 model was verified experimentally by measuring the time to failure 
at low E-field, rather than extrapolating data from high E-field. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

-----
Publication List / International Conference 
[1] J.M. Chan, C.M. Tan, K.C. Lee, C.S. Tan “Non-Destructive Degradation Study of Copper 
Wire Bond for Its Temperature Cycling Reliability Evaluation”, 8th International 
Conference on Materials for Advanced Technologies (ICMAT), 28 June – 03 July 2015, 
Singapore. 
[2] J.M. Chan, C.M. Tan, K.C. Lee, C.S. Tan “Non-Destructive Degradation Study of Copper 
Wire Bond for Its Temperature Cycling Reliability Evaluation”, Microelectronics 
Relibaility, vol. 61, pp. 56-63, June 2016. 
[3] J.M. Chan, X. Cheng, K.C. Lee, W. Kanert, C.S. Tan "Reliability Evaluation of Copper 
(Cu) Through-Silicon Via (TSV) Barrier and Dielectric Liner by Electrical 
Characterization," in 2016 IEEE 18th Electronics Packaging Technology Conference 
(EPTC), Singapore. 
[4] J.M. Chan, X. Cheng, K.C. Lee, W. Kanert, C.S. Tan "Reliability Evaluation of Copper 
(Cu) Through-Silicon Via (TSV) Barrier and Dielectric Liner by Electrical 
Characterization and Physical Failure Analysis (PFA)," in 2017 IEEE 67th Electronic 
Components and Technology Conference (ECTC), USA. 
[5] J.M. Chan, C.S. Tan, K.C. Lee, X. Cheng, and W. Kanert, “Observations of copper (Cu) 
transport in through-silicon vias (TSV) structure by electrical characterization for its 
reliability evaluation,” in Proc. 2017 IEEE IRPS, Monterey, CA, USA, 2017, pp. 4A3.1-
4A3.6. 
[6] J.M. Chan, K.C. Lee, C.S. Tan “Effects of Copper Migration on the Reliability of Through-
Silicon Via (TSV)”, IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability, vol. 18, pp. 
520-528, Nov 2018. 
 
 

-----
