Ultra-wideband-based Navigation for
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Name: Guo Kexin, G1400180L
Supervisor: Prof. Xie Lihua
March 15, 2018

-----
Abstract
Micro unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) play more and more important roles
in both civilian and military applications. Currently, the navigation and con-
trol of UAVs is critically dependent on the localization service provided by the
Global Positioning System (GPS), which suffers from the multipath effect and
blockage of line-of-sight, and fails to work in an indoor, forest or urban envi-
ronment. Therefore, how to achieve positioning in a spatially restricted area
or dense environment, say woods, multi-functional office or urban canyons,
with sufficient localization accuracy which can support autonomous flight is
a worthy research topic. This thesis concentrates on GPS-denied localization
for UAVs by leveraging a radio frequency (RF) technology- ultra-wideband
(UWB) signal. We shall devise algorithms and develop systems for localiza-
tion and apply the estimates to multi-UAV formation control.
In the first part of this thesis, we establish a localization system for UAVs
based on UWB ranging measurements, and each UAV is able to estimate its
own global positions in a customized reference frame. To achieve the local-
ization, a UWB module is installed on the UAV to actively send ranging
requests to some fixed UWB modules at known positions (a.k.a.
anchor
nodes).
Once a distance is obtained, it is calibrated first and then goes
through outlier detection before being fed to a localization algorithm. The
localization algorithm is initialized by trilateration and sustained by the ex-
1

-----
tended Kalman filter (EKF). Afterwards, the position and velocity estimates
produced by the algorithm will be further fed to the control loop to aid the
navigation of the UAV. Flight tests in different environments have been con-
ducted to validate the performance of our UWB based localization system
with anchor nodes.
However, in many operation environments, it is impractical to have fixed
anchor nodes due to large operational scale and area. Moreover, the accuracy
of anchors’ positions will greatly affect the positioning accuracy of UAV. To
reduce human labor and human-induced errors, in the second part of this
thesis, we study the active relative localization (RL) problem of a mobile
UAV on 2D plane to a static UAV (beacon) under motion constraint, using
the self-displacement and UWB ranging measurements. In practice, due to
the environment or task constraint, a UAV may only be allowed to travel
a small distance to fulfill the RL. We find a lower bound of mean square
error in terms of this small distance and the sample size. As revealed from
the lower bound, it only needs to enlarge the ranging span from the starting
point to the ending point and increase the number of rangings to reduce the
estimation error of initial relative position, which is related to and extends
the existing results of unconstrained optimal sensor placement. In this light,
we design an algorithm to actively reduce the localization error along the
ranging path by incrementally enlarging the ranging span, and apply EKF
to account for the noise in the displacement measurements. Simulations and
flight experiments have been conducted to validate our proposed RL strategy.
With the booming development of low-cost micro UAV such as quad-
copter, multi-UAV systems and relevant applications have been extensively
studied recently, and most of the proposed multi-agent controllers rely on
inter-agent relative positions which are assumed to be measurable. However,
2

-----
in practice, the relative position is difficult to obtain and so far there exists
no comerial product for UAV to measure this information. In addition, most
of existing formation experiment results including both simulation and actual
flight still depend on some external infrastructure for positioning. Therefore,
the third part of this thesis puts forth a simultaneous infrastructure-free co-
operative RL and distributed formation control strategy for UAVs in GPS-
denied environments. Instead of estimating relative coordinates by detecting
specific patterns using image processing methods, an onboard UWB ranging
and communication (RCM) network is adopted to sense both the inter-UAV
distance and exchange information for RL estimation. Without any exter-
nal infrastructures prepositioned, each agent cooperatively performs the pro-
posed consensus-based fusion method, which fuses the developed direct and
indirect RL estimates, to generate the relative positions to its neighbours in
real time despite the fact that some UAVs may not have direct range mea-
surements to their neighbours. The RL estimates together with the relative
velocity and inter-UAV distance measurements are used to control a UAV
swarm. Both the cooperative RL and the formation control are implemented
in a distributed fashion. Extensive real-world flight tests corroborate the
merits of the developed simultaneous RL and formation control system.
3

-----
Author’s Publications
Journal papers:
1. K. Guo, Z. Qiu, C. Miao, A. H. Zaini, C.-L. Chen, W. Meng, and L.
Xie, “Ultra-wideband-based Localization for Quadcopter Navigation,”
Unmanned Systems, vol. 4, no. 01, pp. 23-34, 2016.
2. K. Guo, Z. Qiu, W. Meng, L. Xie, and R. Teo, “Ultra-wideband Based
Cooperative Relative Localization Algorithm and Experiments for Mul-
tiple UAVs in GPS-denied Environments,” International Journal of
Micro Air Vehicles, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 169-186, 2017.
3. K. Guo and L. Xie, “Infrastructure-free Cooperative Relative Local-
ization for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in GPS-denied Environments,”
International Journal of Robotics and Automation, accepted, 2017.
4. K. Guo, X. Li and L. Xie, “Ultra-wideband-based Cooperative Rela-
tive Localization and Distributed Formation Control for UAVs,” to be
submitted.
5. Z. Han, K. Guo, L. Xie and Z. Lin, “Integrated Relative Localization &
Leader-Follower Formation Control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic
Control, regular paper, 2018.
4

-----
Conference papers:
1. K. Guo, D. Han, and L. Xie, “Range-Based Cooperative Localization
with Single Landmark,” in Proceedings of the 13th IEEE International
Conference on Control and Automation (ICCA), July 3-6, Ohrid, Mace-
donia, 2017, pp. 588-593.
2. K. Guo, Z. Qiu, W. Meng, and L. Xie, “Relative Localization for
Quadcopters using Ultra-wideband Sensors,” International Micro Air
Vechicle Competition and Conference (IMAV), Beijing, China, Oct.
2016, pp. 243-248. Best paper finalist.
3. K. Guo and L. Xie, “Infrastructure-free Cooperative Relative Local-
ization for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in GPS-denied Environments,”
IEEE International Conference on Unmanned Systems (ICUS), Bei-
jing, China, Oct. 2017. Best paper award.
4. T. M. Nguyen, A. H. Zaini, K. Guo, and L. Xie, “An Ultra-wideband
based Multi-UAV Localization System in GPS-denied Environments,”
International Micro Air Vechicle Competition and Conference (IMAV),
Beijing, China, Oct. 2016, pp. 56-61. Best paper finalist.
5. T. M. Nguyen, A. H. Zaini, C. Wang, K. Guo, and L. Xie, “Robust
Target-relative Localization with Ultra-Wideband Ranging and Com-
munication,” IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automa-
tion (ICRA), accepted, 2018.
5

-----
