0.1
Abstract
With a burgeoning number of IoT devices penetrating into all aspects of our
lives, seemingly endless privacy-related concerns are surfacing. To embrace
the convenience brought by IoT devices, privacy consideration should be in-
corporated into the core design of IoT solutions, where customers have more
control over what information can be inferred about them and what data
is collected about them. We model the sensor network with decentralized
detection framework, where each sensor make a local decision based on its
observation of hypotheses, and transmit the local decision to the fusion cen-
ter. The fusion center make inferences based on the received sensor decisions.
In this thesis, we aim to find privacy mapping at each sensor to distort sensor
observations before send to the fusion center, such that privacy is protected,
while still enabling the fusion center to make accurate detection of the public
hypothesis.
Firstly, we consider protecting information privacy of private hypothesis
without assuming knowledge of joint distribution of the sensor observations
and hypotheses. Here, we call a hypothesis a public hypothesis if its inference
or detection is to be achieved by a sensor network specifically designed for
this purpose, whereas we call a hypothesis a private hypothesis, if its true
state is not authorized to be detected or inferred from the observations about
it. We introduce the concept of an empirical normalized risk, which provides
a theoretical guarantee for the network to achieve information privacy for
the private hypothesis with high probability when the number of training
samples is large. We develop iterative optimization algorithms to determine
an appropriate privacy threshold and the best sensor privacy mappings, and
show that they converge. Finally, we extend our approach to the case of a
private multiple hypothesis.
Secondly, we consider protecting information privacy of a set of private
hypotheses with known joint distribution of the sensor observations and hy-
potheses. We consider the fact that privacy concern is usually not about a
single hypothesis, small deviation from a nominal private hypothesis should
also be kept private from the fusion center. We find a representative private
hypothesis, which is the easiest to detect among the set of private hypothe-
ses. We propose an algorithm, by protecting the information privacy of the
representative private hypothesis, the information privacy of the set of pri-
vate hypotheses is protected. We consider the two cases where the number
of sensors is finite and infinite respectively.
Finally, we discuss the relationship between various privacy metrics pro-
posed in the literature. We divide the privacy metrics into inference privacy
and data privacy. Here, data privacy refers to the concealment of sensors raw
1

-----
observation from the fusion center, while reducing the disclosure of private
states of the object to the fusion center is inference privacy. We show that
inference and data privacy are in general not equivalent. We propose meth-
ods to protect both inference and data privacy in decentralized detection, by
incorporating local differential privacy (data privacy) and information pri-
vacy (inference privacy) metrics. We consider both case with and without
the known prior knowledge of the sensor observations distribution.
2

-----
List of my Publications
[1] M. Sun, W. P. Tay, and X. He. Toward information privacy for the inter-
net of things: A nonparametric learning approach. IEEE Transactions
on Signal Processing, 66(7):1734–1747, April 2018.
[2] Meng Sun and Wee Peng Tay. Privacy-preserving nonparametric decen-
tralized detection. In Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoustics, Speech, and Signal
Processing, pages 6270–6274, Shanghai, 2016.
[3] Xin He, Wee Peng Tay, and Meng Sun.
Privacy-aware decentralized
detection using linear precoding. In Proc. IEEE Sensor Array and Mul-
tichannel Signal Processing Workshop, pages 1–5, Rio de Janeiro, 2016.
[4] Meng Sun and Wee Peng Tay. Inference and data privacy in iot networks.
In Proc. IEEE Int. Workshop Signal Processing Advances, Sapporo, 2017.
3

-----
