Abstract 
 
Traveling-wave Tube (TWT) has been widely used in satellite applications due to its high 
bandwidth, capabilities in high frequency operation, and high thermal tolerance. In the 
miniaturization of TWT, Planar Helix-Slow Wave Structure (PH-SWS) has been proposed, 
which can be fabricated using Silicon-based microfabrication techniques. To utilize this PH-
SWS in TWT, a miniaturized, high current density field emitter is needed for its operation in 
TWT. Carbon Nanotubes (CNTs) has been proposed as a promising field emitting material. In 
this study, the main objective is to design fabricate a miniaturized, high current density field 
emitter which is capable of delivering signal gain of ~20 dB in PH-SWS TWT. 
First, simulation study is carried out on the effect of electron beam current to the signal 
amplification performance of PH-SWS TWT. The simulation is carried out using CST 
STUDIO SUITE. From the simulation, it is found that the signal gain of TWT increases when 
the electron beam current increases from 2 to 25 mA. To achieve signal gain above 20 dB, 
electron beam current of > 6 mA, or current density of > 0.8 A/cm2 rectangular emitting area 
is needed. from 1250x600 µm rectangular emitting area is needed. 
After obtaining the required FE current density, it is important to select the most suitable 
technique to synthesize high FE current density CNTs. CNTs are grown using two approaches: 
plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) and thermal chemical vapor deposition 
(TCVD). For TCVD technique, two types of catalyst sources are attempted, pre-deposited 
catalyst and floating catalyst sources. Among the investigated growth technique, it is found 
that floating catalyst TCVD technique yields higher FE current density due to the high field 
enhancement on CNT tips.  
To reduce the inter-tube screening effect, CNTs can be grown separated islands by means of 
photolithography technique. However, CNTs growth using floating catalyst CVD technique is 
non-selective, which is challenging to grow CNTs in separated islands using such CVD 
technique. To grow CNTs in separated islands, CNTs are grown on Si and SiO2 surfaces at 
growth temperatures from 760 to 880 °C. Selective growth of CNTs on Si is achieved at growth 
temperature of 790 °C.  
By using the obtained selective growth condition, array of CNT bundles is grown on Si/SiO2 
structure, obtaining FE current density of ~ 90 mA/cm2. However, it is found that CNTs possess 
random alignment at the obtained selective growth condition of 790 °C, reducing the field 
enhancement on CNT bundles. To improve the FE current density, CNT bundles are confined 
in pre-fabricated SiO2 pits to retain its geometrical shape. From the FE measurement, CNT 
bundles confined in 2 µm and 0.5 µm diameters pits achieve FE current density of > 333.33 
mA/cm2 and > 1 A/cm2, respectively. The obtained current density of > 1 A/cm2 can be 
speculated to achieve the research objective of > 20 dB signal gain in PH-SWS TWT, as 
simulated earlier. 
 
 
 

-----
