Abstract
In the thesis, secure and privacy-preserving schemes are designed in vehicular networks, and
the specific details of the completed works are shown as following.
Due to the increasing popularity of intelligent vehicles and the recent flourishing of cloud com-
puting, it becomes a recent research trend of extending cloud computing to vehicles by leverag-
ing under-utilized on-board capabilities of vehicles. In vehicular cloud, three security schemes
have been designed.
In the first scheme, a novel location privacy-preserving data query scheme is proposed, with
the proposed scheme, a data requester can retrieve the data generated by vehicular sensors
from the distributive vehicular on-board storage with high accuracy. Since the majority of
intelligent vehicles are generally considered as not fully utilized, these vehicles are candidates
to provide distributive data collection and storage services. By exploiting the homomorphic
Paillier cryptosystem technique and the structured binary scalars to represent the positions of
data requesters and the data generating vehicles, the proposed scheme can achieve the location
matching of the involved entities with privacy-preservation.
In the second scheme, an efficient data sharing scheme and location privacy-preservation in
Internet of vehicles (IoV) is proposed, which enables the collection and distribution of the
data captured by vehicular sensors. The data captured by vehicular sensors records a myriad
of physical phenomena about the surrounding environments, which enables the data sharing
among vehicles and deployed roadside infrastructures to further improve traffic safety and
on-board experience in the intelligent transportation system. With the proposed scheme, the
multi-dimensional sensory data captured at different locations are first structured by the Chi-
nese Remainder Theorem, then the modified Paillier cryptosystem is exploited to achieve the
location privacy-preserving sensory data aggregation. Meanwhile, the proposed scheme ex-
ploits the proxy re-encryption technique to achieve the sensory data acquisition at the network
edge, without the involvement of the trusted central entity.

-----
Nanyang Technological University
In the third scheme, a secure request-response based vehicular data dissemination scheme in the
parking lot scenario is proposed. The roadside units (RSUs) deployed in vehicular ad hoc net-
works (VANETs) can act as information servers to provide information to vehicles under their
coverage area. The proposed scheme exploits an invertible matrix to structure multiple data re-
quests, and encrypts the data requests with the homomorphic Paillier Cryptosystem technique.
Based on the data requests aggregation, the RSU can recover the individual data request while
protecting the unlinkability between the data query and its origin. In addition, the RSU can
verify the correctness of the recovered data requests without privacy disclosure by exploiting
an identity-based batch verification technique.
To improve the quality of the vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communications, the LTE-A net-
work is brought to vehicular network for its dense deployment, high bandwidth and high-speed
movement support. Specifically, two secure handover key establishment schemes are designed.
In the first scheme, a secure handover session key management scheme is designed in mobile
relay LTE-A network. To be more specific, a session key is successfully established between
the on-board user equipment (UE) and the Donor evolved Node B (DeNB), which is firstly
produced by the UE and then securely delivered to the DeNB, which achieves the security
goal of the forward and backward key separations. Meanwhile, to decrease the communica-
tion and computational burden of the proposed scheme, the proxy re-encryption technique is
also employed, i.e., the session keys are initially encrypted by the public key of the mobility
management entity (MME) and then re-encrypted by the mobile relay node (MRN), so that the
target DeNB can recover the value of the session key with its private key without involving the
core entity MME.
In the second scheme, a novel secure coordinated multi-point (CoMP) joint transmission han-
dover key establishment scheme in LTE-A vehicular networks is proposed. Specifically, to
achieve the diversity gain brought by the CoMP joint transmission and accommodate to protect
the backward/forward key separation, the session key is initially produced by the vehicle and
then securely delivered towards the cooperating eNBs, and then decrypted by each cooperating
eNB respectively.
viii

-----
