Abstract 
The study on photovoltaic is an important topic in the sustainable and clean energy research 
field, driven by the deteriorating energy crisis and environmental pollutions due to fossil fuel 
shortage and combustion. Currently, the crystalline silicon (c-Si) based solar cell dominates 
the photovoltaic market. However, its high material cost has weakened its competitiveness 
with fossil fuels. To reduce the material cost, silicon thin film based device incorporated with 
nanostructures for light trapping can be used. 
In this work, we study the nanostructured back reflector (BR) for improved light absorption in 
silicon thin film solar cells. The nanostructured BRs are patterned and fabricated based on 
polystyrene sphere (PS) assisted lithography. We adopted “substrate” (n-i-p) structure and 
highly reflective Ag layer and optical spacer ZnO layer are deposited on glass substrate as the 
BR materials. The silicon thin films are grown on top of the BRs by Plasma Enhanced 
Chemical Vapor Deposition (PECVD) technique. 
 
To improve the patterning capability aimed at developing a well-controlled fabrication 
process of the BRs, we study the etching behavior of PS spheres in Electron Cyclotron 
Resonance (ECR) oxygen plasma. By tuning the oxygen plasma condition including plasma 
input power, etching mode, shielding of the ion flux with Faraday cage, we successfully 
isolated the effect of oxygen radical and of energetic ions on the etching behaviors of PS 
spheres. The reason behind PS spheres melting and shape deformations are concluded and 
negative impacts during BR fabrication are avoided. As the results, we developed a 
well-controlled oxygen plasma etching process for PS spheres using ECR source. After 
etching, small PS sphere size are achieved which enables various applications. 
 
After that, we study light trapping in hydrogenated amorphous silicon thin film solar cells 
fabricated by PECVD on various nanostructured BRs. The BRs are patterned using different 
PS sphere sizes without oxygen plasma etching step. We have investigated the correlation 

-----
between the optical properties of the BRs and the performance of their corresponding solar 
cells. We have introduced double size PS sphere patterned BRs and have shown solid 
experimental evidence for improved light trapping performance compared with single size 
polystyrene sphere patterned BRs. We have achieved high performing nanostructured 
amorphous silicon solar cells with an initial power conversion efficiency of 8.79 % and over 
20 % enhancement of the short-circuit current compared with the reference flat BR solar cell. 
 
Due to the usage of Ag and ZnO material and Ag nanostructures in the BRs, parasitic losses 
are also introduced in the device. Followed from above part, we study parasitic losses and 
light trapping in hydrogenated amorphous silicon thin film solar cells fabricated by PECVD 
on nanostructured BRs. The BRs are patterned using single PS sphere size with oxygen 
plasma etching step. By using O2 plasma etching of the PS spheres, we managed to fabricate 
hexagonal nanostructured BRs. With the help of rigorous modeling, we study the parasitic 
losses in different BRs, non-active layers, and last but not least the light enhancement effect 
in silicon absorber layer. Moreover, simulation results have been compared and verified with 
experimental data. We have demonstrated hexagonal nanostructured amorphous silicon thin 
film solar cells with a power conversion efficiency of 7.7 %  and around 34.7 % 
enhancement of the short-circuit current density, compared with flat amorphous silicon thin 
film solar cell. 
 
 

-----
Publication List 
Journal: 
1. Zeyu Li, Rusli, Martin Foldyna, Junkang Wang, Wanghua Chen, Ari Bimo Prakoso, 
Chenjin Lu, and Pere Roca i Cabarrocas, “Nanostructured back reflectors produced 
using polystyrene assisted lithography for enhanced light trapping in silicon thin films 
solar cells,” has submitted to Solar Energy. 
2. Zeyu Li, Chenjin Lu, Ari Bimo Prakoso, Rusli, Martin Foldyna, Rasha Khoury, 
Pavel Bulkin, Junkang Wang, Wanghua Chen, Erik Johnson, and Pere Roca i 
Cabarrocas, “Optical study and experimental realization of nanostructured back 
reflectors for enhanced light trapping with reduced parasitic losses in silicon thin film 
solar cells,” has submitted to Optical Express. 
3. Rasha Khoury, Zeyu Li, Pavel Bulkin, Rusli, Pere Roca i Cabarrocas, and Erik 
Johnson, “Detailed study of electron cyclotron resonance oxygen plasma etching of 
polystyrene nanosphere arrays,” has submitted to Journal of Physics D: Applied 
Physics. 
4. Ari Bimo Prakoso, Zeyu Li, Chenjin Lu, Changyun Jiang, and Rusli “Design 
guideline for interdigitated back contact Si/organic hybrid heterojunction solar cell,” 
has been submitted to Semiconductor Science and Technology. 
5. Ari Bimo Prakoso, Chenjin Lu, Zeyu Li, Changyun Jiang, and Rusli, “High efficiency 
planar front junction n-Si/PEDOT:PSS hybrid solar cell with ARC compensated 
layer,” has been submitted to Energy Technology. 
6. Ari Bimo Prakoso, Lin Ke, Jianxiong Wang, Zeyu Li, Changyun Jiang, and Rusli, 
"Reverse 
recovery 
transient 
characteristic 
of 
PEDOT:PSS/n-Si 
hybrid 
organic-inorganic heterojunction," accepted 11 December 2016, Organic Electronics, 
vol. 42, pp. 269-274 (2017). 
7. Nastiti Puspitosari, Christophe Longeaud, Raphael Lachaume, Zeyu Li, Rusli, and 
Pere Roca i Cabarrocas, “Comparison of FTPS Performed on Thin Films and Solar 
Cells,” accepted 27 July 2017, Physica Status Solidi C: Current Topics in Solid State 
Physics, vol. 14, 1700165. 

-----
 
Conference: 
1. Li Zeyu, Rusli, Ari Bimo Prakoso, Hong Lei and Pere Roca i Cabarrocas, “12.5% 
Silicon Nanohole/PEDOT:PSS hybrid solar cell with simple solution based surface 
treatment”, 32nd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition 
(EU PVSEC 2016), Germany, June 2016. 
2. Li Zeyu, Rusli, Ari Bimo Prakoso and Pere Roca i Cabarrocas, “Si/PEDOT:PSS 
hybrid solar cell based on random Si nanowires in periodic Si nanoholes structure,” 
Hybrid and Organic Photovoltaic 2016, Swansea, UK, June 2016. 
3. Li Zeyu, Rusli, Lu Chenjin, Ari Bimo Prakoso, Martin Foldyna and Pere Roca i 
Cabarrocas, "Nanostructured Back Reflectors for a-Si:H Thin Film Solar Cells by 
Polystyrene Sphere Assisted Lithography", Nano Science & Technology 2017, 
Fukuoka, Japan, Oct 2017. (invited) 
4. Ari Bimo Prakoso, Lin Ke, Jianxiong Wang, Zeyu Li, Changyun Jiang, Rusli, "Study 
of 
PEDOT:PSS/n-Si 
hybrid 
organic-inorganic 
heterojunction", 
Materials 
Science-2017, Valencia, Spain, Sep 2017. (invited) 

-----
