Abstract 
Recent two decades have witnessed the burgeoning development of quantum dot 
(QD)-based light-emitting diodes (QLEDs) since its first demonstration in 1994. 
It has been regarded as one of the next-generation lighting and display 
technologies, mainly due to the testified extraordinary advantages such as tunable 
wavelength across the whole visible spectrum, narrow full-width at half-
maximum (FWHM), superior colour saturation feature and economical 
manufacture accessibility. Although tremendous achievements in this research 
area have been made especially in these two to three years, which prove its 
comparable performance with organic LEDs (OLEDs), there still remain some 
deficiencies yet to be solved. This thesis will focus on the following topics 
regarding to the replacement of organic layer, the manipulation of carrier 
injection balance and the realization of full-inorganic prototype QLEDs. 
Two inorganic materials, sol-gel prepared copper oxide (CuO) and 
commercially-available copper thiocyanate (CuSCN) were utilized as the 
replacements 
for 
polyethylene 
dioxythiophene: 
polystyrene 
sulfonate 
(PEDOT:PSS), respectively. For CuO-based QLED, the operation lifetime is 
enhanced due to the introduction of inorganic hole injection material, while the 
device performance is comparable with PEDOT:PSS-based ones. Furthermore, 
an inorganic CuSCN with simpler preparation method was applied, and the turn-
on voltage of the corresponding QLED was dramatically decreased due to the 
better energy band alignment of CuSCN than PEDOT:PSS with comparable 
device performance. 
Meanwhile, a novel cathode interfacial material (CIM) was introduced to 
improve the QLED performance by modulating the charge balance. With its 
promising electron transport behaviour and low processing temperature, the 
resultant devices demonstrate better features in terms of EQE, current (CE) and 
power efficiencies (PE). Furthermore, by incorporating this CIM with traditional 
LiF together as the cathode buffering layers, the corresponding device showed 
superior performance, which could be attributed to the better energy band 
alignment and more balanced charge injection due to the reduced barrier for 
electron injection from cathode.  

-----
Moreover, in order to further promote the stability of QLEDs, a series of all 
inorganic QLEDs with multiple emission wavelengths were proposed with 
specific design philosophy. By the insertion of thin lithium fluoride (LiF) as the 
insulating as well as buffering layer, the QD charging and carrier imbalance were 
suppressed in the working device, resulting in improved performance with an 
external quantum efficiency of 3.05% and a maximum brightness over 10,000 
cd/m2, which are among the best reported values to the best of our knowledge. 
To sum up, this thesis mainly addresses three aspects of the current deficiencies 
in QLEDs. Two alternative inorganic materials have been introduced as the hole 
injection material for substituting PEDOT:PSS, resulting in improved device 
operation lifetime and lower turn-on voltage; On the other hand, a surpassing 
charge balance was achieved by the manipulation of  cathode buffering layers, 
demonstrating the feasibility of the CIM in improving the device performance; 
Furthermore, all inorganic QLEDs with the reported highest performance so far 
were systematically fabricated with proper device engineering. We believe that 
our results could make contributions to the development and growth of QLEDs. 

-----
