 
1/1 
Abstract 
Ph.D Thesis Initiation 
 
Title:
Title: Synthesis and Characterization of Wide-
Bandgap Semiconductor Nanostructures towards 
Opto-Electronic applications 
Area of research: Material science, physics, chemistry, nano-photonics, fundamental electronics 
Keywords: GaN, Graphene Quantum dot, hBN, CVD, nanowire, defect, Purcell enhancement 
Semiconductor structures offer unique properties at the nanoscale. Mastering the growth 
of semiconductor crystals and fabrication processes is crucial towards developing better opto-
electronic devices. Morphological variations at nanoscale have a direct effect on available 
electronics states, impacting fundamental electronic properties and photonic capabilities of the 
material.  This thesis focuses on one-dimensional Gallium Nitride (GaN) nanowires, N 
Nitrogen-doped Graphene Quantum Dots (N-GQDs) and two-dimensional hexagonal-Boron 
Nitride (hBN). 
First, optical capabilities of GQDs, GaN nanowires and hBN thin film have been studied 
for their optical emission in the ultraviolet and visible range. Inherent defects resulting from 
growth alter optical properties. GaN one-dimensional structures grown by Low Pressure 
Chemical Vapor Deposition system (LPCVD) show high concentration of surface states 
emitting yellow and green luminescence besides near-band edge emission. N-GQDs show 
better photoluminescence (PL) properties, compared to GQDs, as the emission can be tailored 
from green to yellow by adjusting the solvent in the hydrothermal reaction. Fluorescent 
properties of hBN monolayers with ultra violet emission and engineering defect-related 
luminescent centers is an aspiring goal for room temperature single photon emitters 
Next, GaN nanowires growth kinetics and mechanisms were found to evolve by altering 
precursor concentration, temperature of growth or seed catalyst. PL and Raman spectroscopy 
characterizations show high concentration of defect states in LPCVD-grown GaN crystal while 
MBE-grown nanowires exhibit a strong near-band edge emission for as-grown and Mg-doped 
nanostructures. For N-GQDs the emission is modulated by changing the solvent in the 
hydrothermal reaction. The shortening of the emission lifetime is proportional to the increase 
in the emission wavelength from blue and yellow while the quantum yields approaches unity 
thanks to few hydroxyl and carboxyl groups acting as nonradiative electron–hole recombination 
centers. 
Finally, fabrication of efficient micro- and nano-scale emitters is of crucial importance for 
optical nanodevices. In conventional semiconductors, such as Si or GaAs, fabrication processes 
can involve expensive and time consuming electron beam lithography and etching. We show 
an alternative, using femtosecond laser-based process, to fabricate efficient GaN and hBN-
based localized micro- and nanometer-size light emitters based on intentionally induced points 
defects. Coupling these nano-emitters with surface plasmons of another nanostructure can 
improve the emission rate as shown by coupling N-GQDs to single Bi2Te3 nanoplates. 

-----
