Publication abstract: 
 
It has always been a hot topic to break the resolution/field-of-view (FOV) invariant 
and achieve a near-eye display with a large FOV and high-resolution. We present 
a super-resolution method for near-eye displays by overlapping images from two 
display panels using a half mirror. Key aspects including theoretical analysis, 
optimized method, system set-up, and calibration process are discussed detailly. 
A proof-of-concept prototype was developed to provide a super-resolution image 
capable of providing significantly higher sampling rate. 
 
Light field near-eye display has received a lot of attention, because it can solve 
convergence and accommodation conflict during the usage of near-eye displays. 
However, in actual systems, convergence depth and accommodation depth may 
not match with each other, due to the repeating zones produced by traditional light-
field methods. We have proposed a novel method to construct a light-field near-
eye display based on random pinholes. Random pinholes have been employed as 
a spatial light modulator to break the periodicity of elemental images, and the light 
field images for a unique view zone in space can be provided. A proof-of-concept 
prototype has also been developed to verify the proposed method. 
 
We have presented a panoramic imaging system based on two afocal lens and a 
smart phone that consists of cameras on both sides is presented. One Individual 
afocal lens has been developed with a large field of view (FOV) and a large exit 
pupil, and it which can enlarge the FOV of a smart phone camera to above 190°
. 
A 360°
 panoramic imaging system can be obtained based on two tiled imaging 
channels on the both sides of the smart phone. In this study, some typical issues 
on smart phone based 360°
 panoramic system methods based on a smart phone, 
such as relative illuminance, and assembly tolerance, were analyzed in detail and 
taken into consideration during the design procedure. A proof-of-concept prototype 
has been developed with a cheap price low fabrication cost yet producing 

-----
impressive a panoramic image quality with an acceptable image quality has been 
developed based on a commonly used smart phone. 
 
A subpixel area-based evaluation method for an improved slanted lenticular film 
that minimizes the crosstalk in a quasi-three-dimensional (Q3D) display is 
proposed. To identify an optimal slant angle of the film, a subpixel area-based 
measurement is derived to evaluate the crosstalk among viewing regions of the 
intended subpixel and adjacent unintended subpixel by taking the real subpixel 
shape and black matrix into consideration. The subpixel mapping, which 
corresponds to the optimal slant angle of the film, can then be determined. 
Meanwhile, the viewing zone characteristics are analyzed to balance the light 
intensity in both right and left eye channels. A compact and portable Q3D system 
has been built and appropriate experiments have been applied. The results 
indicate that significant improvements in both crosstalk and resolution can be 
obtained with the proposed technique. 
 
A method to improve the design of an off-axis lightguide configuration for near to 
eye displays (NED) is proposed using freeform optics technology. The advantage 
of this modified optical system, which includes an organic light-emitting diode 
(OLED), a doublet lens, an imaging lightguide prism and a compensation prism, is 
that it increases optical length path, offers a smaller size, as well as avoids the 
obstructed views, and matches the user's head shape. In this system, the light 
emitted from the OLED passes through the doublet lens and is refracted/reflected 
by the imaging lightguide prism, which is used to magnify the image from the 
microdisplay, while the compensation prism is utilized to correct the light ray shift 
so that a low-distortion image can be observed in a real-world setting. A NED with 
a 4 mm diameter exit pupil, 21.5°
 diagonal full field of view (FoV), 23 mm eye relief, 
and a size of 33 mm by 9.3 mm by 16 mm is designed. The developed system is 
compact, lightweight and suitable for entertainment and education application. 
 

-----
A demo system that realistically displays the glasses-free light field 3D effect with a 
triple-layer structure is presented. By combining multi-layer panels, high refresh rates, 
and directional backlighting together, we achieve a wide field of view and large depth 
of field with a thin form factor. Additionally, using some off-the-shelf hardware, this 
system demonstrates an interesting light field display. 
 
Publication list: 
 
Qijia Cheng, Weitao Song, Feng Lin, Yue Liu, Yongtian Wang and 
Yuanjin Zheng. “Resolution enhancement of near-eye displays by 
overlapping.” Submitted to Optical Communications. Manuscript ID: 
MB-3562. 
 
Weitao Song, Qijia Cheng, Yue Liu, Yuanjin Zheng and Yongtian 
Wang. “Design of a light field near-eye display using random pinholes.” 
Optics Express 27, no. 17 (2019): 23763-23774. 
 
Weitao Song, Qijia Cheng, Xuming Liu, Yandong Wang, Yetao 
Huang, Yuanjin Zheng, Yue Liu and Yongtian Wang, “Design of a 360°
 
panoramic capture system based on a smart phone.” Chinese Optics 
Letter, accepted, manuscript ID: COL-19-0016. 
 
Zhenfeng Zhuang, Phil Surman, Qijia Cheng, Simon Thibault, Yuanjin 
Zheng, and Xiao Wei Sun. "Subpixel area-based evaluation for 
crosstalk suppression in quasi-three-dimensional displays." Applied 
Optics 56, no. 19 (2017): 5450-5457. 
 

-----
Zhenfeng Zhuang, Qijia Cheng, Phil Surman, Yuanjin Zheng, and 
Xiao Wei Sun. "A compact and lightweight off-axis lightguide prism in 
near to eye display." Optics Communications 393 (2017): 143-151. 
 
Shizheng Wang, Xiangyu Zhang, Qijia Cheng, Kaviya Rajendran, Phil 
Surman, Junsong Yuan, and Xiao Wei Sun. "Glasses-free light field 3D 
display." In Visual Communications and Image Processing (VCIP), 
2015, pp. 1-1. IEEE, 2015. 
 
 
Before NTU matriculation: 
 
Qijia Cheng, Zhuoteng Peng, Jie Lin, Shanshan Li, and Fei Wang. 
"Energy harvesting from human motion for wearable devices." In 
Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems (NEMS), 2015 IEEE 
10th International Conference on, pp. 409-412. IEEE, 2015. 
 
Qijia Cheng, Minghao He, Ulf Ekenberg, Kezheng Li and Hongyu Yu. 
"Ultra-thin CdTe Thin-film Solar Cell with Surface Texturing." China 
Semiconductor International Conference 2015. 
 
Minghao He, Qijia Cheng, Xuyao Duan, Kezheng Li and Hongyu Yu. 
"A Theoretical Study of CdTe Flat-_lm Thickness Impact on AM1.5G 
Solar Absorption." Journal of Optics Applications 3.1 (2014). 

-----
