Publication List 
1. B. Qiang, A. M. Dubrovkin, H. N.S. Krishnamoorthy, Q. Wang, C. Soci, Y. 
Zhang, J. Teng, Q. J. Wang, “High Q-factor controllable phononic modes in 
hybrid phononic-dielectrics” (Submitted) 
2. 
B. Qiang, A. M. Dubrovkin, H. N.S. Krishnamoorthy, C. Soci, Q. J. Wang, 
“Hybrid dielectric-phonon metamaterial in mid-infrared” (Submitted) 
3. A. M. Dubrovkin, B. Qiang, H. N. S. Krishnamoorthy, N. I. Zheludev and Q. J. 
Wang, "Ultra-confined surface phonon polaritons in molecular layers of van der 
Waals dielectrics", Nature Communications, 9, 1726, 2018. 
4. Y. Zeng, G. Liang, B. Qiang, K. Wu, J. Tao, X. Hu, L. Li, A. G. Davies, E. H. 
Linfield, H. K. Liang, Y. Zhang, Y. Chong, and Q. J. Wang, "Two-dimensional 
multimode terahertz Random lasing with metal pillars", ACS Photonics, 5, 
2928−2935, 2018. 
5. Y. Zeng, G. Liang, B. Qiang, B. Meng, H. K. Liang, S. Mansha, J. P. Li, Z. H. Li, 
L. H. Li, A. G. Davies, E. H. Linfield, Y. Zhang, Y. Chong, and Q. J. Wang*, 
“Terahertz Emission from Localized Modes in One-Dimensional Disordered 
Systems”, Photonics Research, 6, 117-122, 2018.(invited paper) 
6. T. Liu, D. Qiu, T. Yin, C. Huang, G. Liang, B. Qiang, Y. Shen, H. Liang, Y. Zhang, 
H. Wang, X. Shen, D. W. Hewak, and Q. J. Wang, "Enhanced light-matter 

-----
interaction in atomically thin MoS2 coupled with 1D photonic crystal 
nanocavity", Optic Express, 25, 14691-14696, 2017. 
7. Meng, B. Qiang, E. Rodriguez, X. Hu, G. Liang, and Q. J. Wang, "Coherent 
emission from integrated Talbotcavity quantum cascade lasers", Optic Express 25, 
3077-3082, 2017. 
 
 

-----
Abstract 
The development and progress in nanophotonics is powered by the discovery of new 
materials and new methods to squeeze electromagnetic wave like into smaller volume 
and minimize the its loss as much as possible. The large optical mode confinement and 
low loss are indispensable properties for a vast range of applications, such as cavity 
quantum electrodynamics, nonlinear high harmonic generation, integrated optical circuit, 
high sensitivity sensors, super resolution imaging and photon-induced chemical or 
biological process. Each spectral region has different material platform to achieve the 
holy grail. The most popular examples are surface plasmon resonance in visible to near 
infrared, graphene in infrared and superconductors in terahertz. Phonon resonance in 
mid-infrared also demonstrates superb properties in terms of low-loss and high 
confinement.  
During my Ph.D. candidature period, we have made some contribution to explore the 
properties of phononic-dielectric hybrid material system. In chapter 3, we summarized 
the experiment skills, material propertie, and some preliminary results. These are the 
foundation for the main works presented in this thesis. In chapter 4, we explore the limit 
of confinement that the SiC-MoS2 heterostructure can achieve. By exfoliated MoS2 
flakes of different thickness onto the SiC substrate, we analyzed the how the 
confinement of the EM mode energy depends on the thickness and incident wavelength. 
In chapter 5, we showed that fabricating nanostructures using FIB milling will damage 
the crystalline lattice. As an alternative approach, we proposed a new method to excite 

-----
the phonon resonance using a nanostructured dielectric layer of deep subwavelength 
thick. We showed the hybrid dielectric-phononic scheme has stronger resonance than 
the phononic nanostructure, when the thickness is thin. We tested our proposed 
metamaterial through experiment and evaluated its performance as a refractive index 
sensor. In chapter 6, we investigated the mode interaction and coupling between the 
localized hyrid phononic-delectric resonance with the propagating surface polariton. Our 
results show that the coupling strength can be tailored by the changing the germanium 
ribbon width. The mode energy distribution in near field and the resonant wavelength 
can be controlled by the coupling between the modes. All these results presented in this 
thesis will be useful in designing hybrid dielectric-phononic devices. 

-----
