SEMICONDUCTOR QUANTUM NANOSTRUCTURES
FOR OPTOELECTRONIC APPLICATIONS
Sumanta Bose
June 13, 2017
Semiconductor quantum nanostructures, such as 0D quantum dots (QDs), 1D nanorods and
2D nanoplatelets (NPLs), quantum rings (QRs) and quantum wells (QWs) exhibit unique quantum
mechanical and optoelectronic properties due to spatial confinement of excitons in one or more di-
mensions (∼10−9 m). They have received increasing research interest in recent years owing to their
intriguing fundamental properties that can be leveraged for potential applications in optoelectronic
and display devices as cost-effective and quantum-efficient luminophores. They have been success-
fully used to implement and design light-emitting diodes (LEDs), lasers, photodetectors, solar cells,
biomedical imagers, etc. This is owing to their morphological bandgap tunability, fast fluorescence
lifetime and unique optical characteristics supporting tunable pure-color or wide spectral emission.
Among the wide range of available and newly studied semiconductor quantum nanostructures,
firstly (i) NPLs and QRs of II-VI materials and alloys thereof, and secondly (ii) QDs and QWs of
III-V dilute nitride/bismide alloy materials are two families of nanostructures that have emerged as
very promising candidates for novel semiconductor device design applications.
In this thesis, we report studies on the aforementioned two families of semiconductor quantum
nanostructures. The first part of the thesis focuses on the study of II-VI (CdSe and CdS) NPLs
and optoelectronic properties thereof under varying environmental conditions such as geometri-
cal dimensions, temperature, material composition, topology and optical polarization. NPLs are a
unique class of atomically flat quasi-2D quantum confined nanocrystals, often synthesized using
wide bandgap II-VI materials, having well-defined thicknesses of several monolayers (MLs). Their
sizes enable them to be colloidally suspended in solution. Recent advancements in colloidal chem-
istry has led to the efficient synthesis of high quality single crystal NPL samples having reduced
nonradiative recombination paths and enhanced optical properties. They exhibit strong 1D confine-
ment as their thickness is very small compared to the Bohr radius. NPLs possess the wide bandgap
tunability of QDs and the short exciton decay time of QWs bringing together advantageous features
from two domains. Compared to QDs, they typically have narrower emission spectra, reduced in-
homogeneous broadening and suppressed Auger recombination.
Furthermore, the second part of the thesis focuses on the study of quaternary dilute nitride/bismide
III-V (InNBiAs, InNBiSb and GaNBiAs) QDs and QWs for their optoelectronic properties and ap-
plication. Dilute nitride/bismide doped III-V alloys promises increased engineering flexibility in
the design of advanced compound semiconductor heterostructure devices. Increased control over
key device parameters such as lattice constant, bandgap and band offsets opens the door to im-
proved performance for a wide range of electronic and optoelectronic devices. In dilute nitride
alloys, the resonant states couples with the conduction band (CB) states and produces the band an-
ticrossing (BAC) effects. This causes the CB band edge to get lowered compared to the unalloyed
case. Similarly, for dilute bismide alloys, the valence band (VB) edge is lifted due to the valence
band anticrossing (VBAC) resulting from coupling between its resonant states and VB states. In
addition, the spin-orbital-splitting energy can exceed the bandgap in dilute bismuth alloy which
can inhibit the Auger recombination, making it an excellent candidate for optoelectronic device
applications, particularly suited for optical fiber telecommunication applications.
1

-----
The core machinery of our modeling and simulation study of semiconductor quantum nanos-
tructures uses an effective-mass envelope function theory based on the 8-band and 16-band k·p
models with valence force field considerations. The optical properties calculations are based on the
density-matrix equation and takes into consideration the excitonic effects with intraband scattering
and temperature effects. For each of the nanostructure studied, we have performed a comprehensive
study on a range of optoelectronic characteristics such as the strain tensor profiles, excitonic tran-
sition energies, optical transition matrix elements, Fermi factors, spatial change densities, electron-
hole wavefunctions, electronic bandstructure/ band lineups, band-mixing probabilities, photolu-
minescence emission spectra, optical gain/ absorption spectra, maximum and differential gains and
transparency properties. Our findings have important implications for the application of II-VI NPLs
and QRs; and dilute nitride/bismide III-V QDs and QWs in optoelectronic devices, such as LEDs,
lasers, solar cells etc. They serve as an enabler for designing experiments and predicting opto-
electronic characteristics in tandem with measurements and fabrication and can be used to tune
reiterations parameters to reduce time and cost of device production.
2

-----
