Summery 
This thesis presents a designing of a regeneration system for liquid desiccant dehumidification 
system (LDDS), development of a mathematical model to regeneration process simulation and 
optimization of the system with multi objective genetic algorithm. New design for the 
regenerator is compact, efficient and can implement with secondary level heat source. Developed 
model for desorption process and condensation process is efficient, simple and accurate 
comparing to the other conventional models. The contribution of this thesis includes: 
1. 
Designing of a new regenerator for desorption application of the LDDS consider 
overcoming drawbacks of conventional solution to air regeneration cycles. The performance of the 
regeneration system relies on several design parameters like generator heat exchanger and condenser heat 
exchanger heat and mass transfer area and driving force, solution flow method through the heat 
exchanger, condenser tube arrangement, solution accumulation amount, vacuum rate of the pump, 
condensed water removal rate and liquid desiccant properties. The system was designed in vacuumed 
condition to reduce the required heat source temperature and also to increase the mass transfer driving 
force. The system is a fully closed one to overcome the carry over effect of the desiccant. Vacuumed 
chamber is divided into two sections namely generator heat exchanger and condenser heat exchanger. 
Solution circulates through the generator heat exchanger cycle and absorbs the required latent load and 
vaporizes. Vacuum pressure increases in generator side and water vapor travels to condenser side, 
releases latent heat to the cooling water and then condenses. Different tests are carried out by varying hot 
water temperature and flow rate, chilled water temperature and flow rate, solution flow rate, initial 
solution concentration and initial vacuum level of the chamber. 
 

-----
2. 
Developed mathematical model for newly designed vacuumed regeneration system of LDDS is 
validated within 10% error band. Heat and mass transfer study for generator heat exchanger and 
condenser heat exchanger is developed. Heat transfer Nusselt number and mass transfer Sherwood 
number is developed for the generator heat exchanger and condenser heat exchanger. Non-linear least 
square method is used to fit the general heat and mass transfer solution with the actual test data with less 
than 10% relative error. Heat transfer rate of the generator is a function of heat exchanger area, mean 
temperature difference between hot water and solution, hot water mass flow rate, solution mass flow rate, 
solution density and solution heat capacity. Condenser heat exchanger is modeled by considering external 
natural condensation over a tube bank and internal convection of a cylindrical tube. Heat transfer rate of 
the condenser is a function of chilled water flow rate, mean temperature difference and the number of 
rows of tubes. Nusselt number relationship with Reynolds number, Prandlt number and friction factor is 
used. Generator heat exchanger mass transfer Sherwood number is a function of two phases Reynolds 
number, Schmidt number, concentration gradient and heat flux. The vacuum amount inside the chamber 
has a significant effect to the final result. 
3. 
Optimization of the developed model has been conducted using multi objective genetic algorithm 
(GA). Heat and mass transfer of both generator and condenser heat exchanger and total energy 
consumption of the system are set as objective functions and optimized according to six constraints with 
upper and lower bounds of restricting parameters. Global optimum condition of the system with multi 
objectives can be achieved efficiently using the GA efficiently.   

-----
