Modeling, Optimization and Thermal Characterization of Micropillar 
Evaporator Based High Performance Silicon Vapor Chamber 
To overcome the high heat generation challenge and ensure sustainable development in the 
semiconductor industries, thermal management for high density electronic devices has drawn 
much attention in recent years. Being a passive thermal management device with high heat 
removal capability, vapor chamber that spreads concentrated heat via liquid-to-vapor phase 
change phenomena was proven to be a promising cooling technique. Evaporator is the 
determinant section that governs the performance of a vapor chamber. Silicon vapor chamber 
with micropillar evaporator possess large thin film evaporation area, mature manufacturing 
technique and can be integrated with electronic devices homogeneously to eliminate excess 
thermal interface layer as well as avoid thermal expansion mismatch. However, comprehensive 
and systematic study on silicon vapor chamber and micropillar evaporators is lacking. Predictive 
models that evaluate the performance limit of vapor chamber and evaporators are limited, 
selection of micropillar geometries is trial-and-error based in previous work. In this thesis, we 
developed three semi-analytical models in predicting the capillary-limited dryout heat flux of 
uniform evaporator with squarely packed cylindrical micropillars, biporous evaporators with 
micropillar islands separated by microchannels and sealed silicon vapor chamber with 2D liquid 
flow. We performed optimization to determine the best geometric combinations of the 
evaporators and vapor chambers by taking the temperature rise into consideration. Accordingly, 
we fabricated the evaporators and vapor chambers by micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) 
process to define micropillar patterns with deep-reactive-ion-etching (DRIE) and embedded 
resistance-temperature-detectors (RTDs). We also conducted systematic experiments to 
characterize the dryout heat flux and heat transfer coefficient of samples with various geometries. 
The three models were validated against experiment results with less than 20 % over-prediction. 
A 1 cm ×
 1 cm uniform and biporous evaporators were able to dissipate a maximum dryout heat 
flux of 25.7 and 55.9 W/cm2, respectively. An ultra-thin Si vapor chamber with thickness of 1.25 
mm can handle 98.1 W/cm2 heat flux before dryout. Heat transfer coefficient was found to 
increase with larger micropillar diameter/pitch ratio, smaller micropillar height, wider 
micropillar islands and narrower microchannel width. This thesis provides deep insights, with 
experimental verification, into the design and optimization of vapor chamber with micropillar 
evaporators. 

-----
