Name: 
Rijil Thomas 
Matriculation number: 
G1300514C 
Supervisor: 
Assoc. Prof. Soh Cheong Boon 
Thesis Title: 
MODELING AND ANALYSIS OF POST PLASMONIC 
EFFECTS IN OPTICALLY EXCITED METAL 
NANOSYSTEMS 
 
Abstract 
Plasmonic nanoparticles such as gold (Au) and silver (Ag) with their heterogeneous 
nanocomposite structures have aggrandized in multitude of applications including biomedical 
imaging (optical, dark field, photoacoustic, etc.), sensing techniques including wavelength shift 
LSPR bands and Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy (SERS), photothermal therapy, and 
drug delivery. Their usage is made plausible by optical excitation of suitable wavelength and 
subsequently triggering local surface plasmon resonance (LSPR). To manipulate LSPR, this field 
of nanotechnology requires appropriate modification and design of nanostructures in terms of 
size, shape, surface functionalization, coating, interparticle coupling, etc. These modifications are 
inevitable to achieve better performance and sensitivity via one or more of these objectives: 1) 
higher absorption, 2) field enhancement and 3) thermodynamic stability. 
Though the unique capabilities of coatings/shell on nanomaterials are quite promising, 
post effects of optical excitation intuitively can be claimed to disturb the core-shell nanostructures.  
This thesis investigates the cause of perturbations in plasmonic as well as core-shell hetero-
structures and their bulk and surface morphologies via few possible intermediate phenomena like 
electric field enhancement, thermal expansion, heat generation, gas evolution, boiling, ablation, 
breakdown, and plasma formation. These mechanisms occur under specific conditions of 
temperature, irradiation timing, laser intensity, nanoparticle shape, environment matrix, pulse 
duration, beam diameter, etc. On the other hand, in addition to investigation on structural damage, 
the thesis also analyzes and study a plasmonic system formed via optical excitation as stimulus 
or trigger to induce formation of clusters, how plasmons couples in an elongated self-assembly 
with a conductive interface. 
In this thesis, we have explored few mechanisms which induce morphological or structural 
change, on composite hetero-nanostructures with a dielectric coating on gold nanoparticles. We 
used finite element method (FEM), MATLAB and theoretical analysis to numerically compute and 
predict the intensity range where we can expect such breakdown. First we explored structural 
damage on smaller nanoparticles like silica coated spherical Au nanoparticles (AuNP@SiO2). 
Using nanosecond pulsed laser (10ns) we have showed the possibility of structural breakdown 
which was characterized using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images and scanning 
electron microscopy images (SEM). An intensive literature and theoretical model backup the fact 
that, structural failure in these core-shell nanospherical structures happens due to differential 
thermal expansion of core-shell pair and that rupture or deformation happens throughout the silica 
coating.  
Following this we extended our study towards silica coated Ag nanoprism (AgNPr@SiO2) 
which exhibits a different breakdown mechanism. Due to the triangular geometry and high 

-----
scattering of Ag than that of Au, a low input intensity could create a field enhancement near the 
corners causing damage to initiate near the corners. Numerical models were used to analyze the 
localization of intensity near corners and estimate the numerical value range of breakdown. Thus, 
a more controlled breakdown is achieved and with a low laser fluence. These nanosystems are 
anticipated to have significant impact on biomedical applications, providing futuristic possibilities 
for non-invasive methods as suitable agent carriers. These agents can be injected non-invasively 
and remotely activate to respond to external stimuli in convenient sites inside a real-life sample. 
 Finally, we have investigated the effect of optical excitation on plasmonic clusters 
connected covalently by a conductive inter-particle interface. For this we have selected gold 
nanoprisms (AuNPrs) and modified triangular edges with a synthetically modified diacetylene 
monomer. Upon exposure to ultra-violet light (254 nm) the diacetylene undergoes photo-
polymerization to poly-diacetylene resulting in formation of interparticle assembly and initiate 
clustering. We anticipate that the interface comprising of conductive polymers allows interparticle 
plasmonic exchange upon suitable light excitation.  
Theoretical simulation and experimental findings suggested that upon suitable optical 
excitation, post-excitation on plasmonic nanosystems, core-shell analogues as well as 
interparticle clusters undergoes various changes. The resultant transformation in these 
nanosystems varies for different structures depending on factors such as size, shape, coating 
and nature of laser used for excitation. The study presented in this thesis will provide insight in to 
plasmon interactions based structural instabilities and changes in plasmonic nanomaterials during 
interaction with electromagnetic (EM) waves. 

-----
