OPERATION AND PROTECTION OF DC SHIPBOARD
POWER SYSTEM
Kuntal Satpathi
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Abstract
Marine vessels integrated with the electrical propulsion have conventionally been based on fixed voltage, fixed-
frequency (50/60 Hz) ac generation and distribution system. In recent years, dc power system in the marine
vessels has been proposed primarily to take advantage of the fuel-efficient operation which is enabled through
the integration of the variable frequency diesel generators. Such emerging dc shipboard power system (SPS) also
enables interconnection of the alternative power generation and energy storage technologies which helps in peak
shaving of the generators in the event of wide load variation. In spite of the advantages, one of the impediments to
the widespread adoption of dc SPS is the lack of comprehensive short-circuit fault management strategies. In such
systems, the voltage source converter (VSC) based dc generation system is expected to be chosen as an interface
between the generators and the marine loads owing to its improved operational benefits. During the fault, the
dc-link the capacitor of the VSC will discharge rapidly, releasing high current. This rapidly rising capacitive
discharge current poses a serious challenge in fault detection as the rate of rise and magnitude of the current
profile depends on the fault resistance, fault location, and circuit parameters. Moreover, the time required to
detect the dc fault current is very low. It is thus required to devise suitable protection algorithm to expedite the
process of fault detection and isolation. The power system of such vessel is dominated by a significant number of
active loads and a finite number of dc generation sources. As a result, the network configuration is expected to get
dynamically altered to fulfill the required generation and load demands to cater for the desired marine mission.
Such varying network configurations make the transient responses significantly different from the conventional ac
grids and the prospective dc grids and hence making the fault management strategies more challenging. Thus,
the modeling and control of the dc generation sources, loading scenarios, and the system operation become an
important aspect to effectively understand and analyze the transient responses. The aim of this thesis is to address
the modeling and control challenges of the dc SPS and systematically perform transient analysis to devise the
protection algorithms to effectively detect short-circuit faults. This thesis considers the platform supply vessel
(PSV) emulating the Rolls-Royce UT776 vessel as the target dc SPS. PSV is taken as an example, due to its
complex operating scenarios and wider applicability in the marine industry.
The first part of the thesis proposes the real-time transient framework to understand the marine operation with
the increased focus on the modeling and control of the dc generation system. Automatic flux regulator (AFR)
based dc generation system has been proposed and has been compared in detail with the traditional automatic
voltage regulator (AVR) based dc generation system. It is seen that the AFR is easier to implement, does not
require bulky LC− filters (hence lower footprint), easier to operate at variable operating speed and has lower
1

-----
power consumption than the AVR based dc generation system. After the development of dc generation system,
the operation of the dc SPS is studied with various contingency scenarios, such as the outage of the generation
systems, abrupt load changes, the effect of the energy storage systems and so on, with the objective of operating
at fuel-efficient operation. It is concluded that the coordinated treatment of the energy storage sources with the
operation of diesel generator operating at optimized speed results in fuel-efficient operation with fuel savings of
19% when compared with the fixed frequency based ac SPS.
After the modeling and operation, this thesis covers systematic transient studies to devise the short-circuit
fault detection technique for the target dc PSV. It is seen that the traditional time-domain based fault detection
technique is not suitable for such applications as the magnitude and rate of rise of current is limited by varying
network conditions of the dc PSV. On the other hand, the rapidly rising fault current is expected to have high-
frequency components which could be an effective indicator of the transient condition. With this regard, this thesis
considers the short-time Fourier transform (STFT) based quantitative analysis of the high-frequency components
in the dc currents for the fault detection in the dc SPS. The operating principles, factors affecting the STFT
operation and the sensitivity analysis are also discussed. For the enhanced selectivity, a novel directional protection
is also proposed which uses directional zonal interlocking as a directional element and STFT as fault detector. The
efficacy of this proposed directional protection is substantiated by confirming against a range of fault impedances
initiated at the generator terminals, load terminals, lines and buses of the dc PSV.
The third part of the thesis discusses the fault tolerant dc generation system which is able to restrict the fault
current in the event of the external short-circuit faults. The thesis is concluded by discussions and the future
work recommendations.
Keywords: DC Generation Systems, DC Power Systems, DC Protection, DC Power System Modeling, DC Fault
Studies, DC Transient Analysis, Marine Vessels, Platform Supply Vessels, Directional protection, Shipboard power
system.
List of Publications
• As First Author
– Refereed Journal Publications:
1. K. Satpathi, A. Ukil, J. Pou and M. A. Zagrodnik, “Design, Analysis and Comparison of Auto-
matic Flux Regulator with Automatic Voltage Regulator Based Generation System for DC Marine
Vessels,” IEEE Trans. Transport. Electrific., 2018 (In Press).
2. K. Satpathi, Y.M. Yeap, A. Ukil, and N. Geddada, “Short-time fourier transform based transient
analysis of VSC interfaced point-to-point DC system,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 65, no. 5,
pp. 4080-4091, May 2018.
3. K. Satpathi, A. Ukil, and J. Pou, “Short-circuit protection in DC electric ship propulsion system:
Review of existing technologies and future research trends,” IEEE Trans. Transport. Electrific., vol.
4, no. 1, pp. 272-291, Mar. 2018.
4. K. Satpathi, V. M. Balijepalli, and A. Ukil, “Modeling and real-time scheduling of DC platform
supply vessel for fuel efficient operation,” IEEE Trans. Transport. Electrific., vol. 3, no. 3, pp.
762-778, Sep. 2017.
2

-----
– Refereed Conference Publications:
1. K. Satpathi, A. Ukil, S. S. Nag, and J. Pou, “Comparative Analysis of Directional Protection in AC
and DC Power Systems,” Innovative Smart Grid Technologies (ISGT), Singapore, 2018. (Accepted)
2. K. Satpathi, A. Ukil, N. Thukral and M. A. Zagrodnik, “Modeling of DC Shipboard Power System,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems (PEDES), Trivandrum,
India, Dec. 2016.
3. K. Satpathi and A. Ukil, “Protection of MVDC Shipboard Power System using Rogowski Coil,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems (PEDES), Trivandrum,
India, Dec. 2016.
4. K. Satpathi, N. Thukral, A. Ukil and M. A. Zagrodnik, “Flux Estimation based DC Bus Voltage
Control in Marine DC Power System,” in Proc. Annu. Conf. IEEE Ind. Electron. Soc. (IECON),
Florence, Italy, Oct. 2016.
5. K. Satpathi, N. Thukral, A. Ukil and M. A. Zagrodnik, “Directional Protection Scheme for MVDC
Shipboard Power System,” in Proc. Annu. Conf. IEEE Ind. Electron. Soc. (IECON), Florence,
Italy, Oct. 2016.
6. K. Satpathi and A. Ukil, “Protection Strategies for LVDC Distribution System,” in Proc. IEEE
PowerTech Conf., Eindhoven, Netherlands, Jun. 2015.
• As Co-Author
– Refereed Journal Publications:
1. Y. M. Yeap, N. Geddada, K. Satpathi, and A. Ukil, “Time and frequency domain fault detection in
VSC interfaced experimental DC test system”, IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., 2018 (In Press).
– Refereed Conference Publications:
1. A. Ukil, Y. M. Yeap, K. Satpathi and N. Geddada, “Fault Identification in AC and DC Systems
Using STFT Analysis of High Frequency Components,” in Proc. Innovative Smart Grid Technologies
(ISGT), Auckland, New Zealand, 2017.
2. S. S. Nag, K. Satpathi, A. Ukil, M. A. Zagrodnik and J. Pou, “An Isolated Bipolar DC-DC Converter
for Energy Storage Integration in Marine Vessels,” in Proc. Annu. Conf. IEEE Ind. Electron. Soc.
(IECON), Beijing, China, 2017.
3. D. Francis, Q. Zhengting, K. Satpathi, N. Thukral and A. Ukil, “Suitability of Rogowski Coil for
DC Shipboard Protection,” in Proc. IEEE TENCON Conf., Singapore, Nov. 2016.
3

-----
