Development of highly efficient organic and perovskite solar cells 
 
Abstract 
With rapid industrial development and global population growth in 21st century, the search for 
renewable energy source becomes more important. Among various renewable energy sources, 
solar energy is the most plentiful one. Great efforts have been made to develop high efficient and 
low cost photovoltaic (PV) technologies. So far, the dominant PV technology is based on 
inorganic semiconductor materials, such as Silicon (Si) and Gallium arsenide (GaAs). Despite 
with the high solar energy conversion efficiency, these PV technologies require strict 
manufacturing processes and have very high materials and fabrication costs. To make the PV 
technology price cheaper, people have been searching for other types of solar cells using cheap 
materials and low-cost manufacturing processes. Organic solar cells (OSCs) and perovskite solar 
cells (PrSCs) have attracted lots of attentions as a new generation of PV technologies recently. 
They are attractive because of their low-cost fabrication process, mechanical flexibility, solution 
processability, etc. The objective of this work is to improve the performance and reduce the 
fabrication costs of the OSCs and PrSCs. First, a newly synthesized n-type conjugated 
polyelectrolyte (CPE), poly [9,9-bis((60-N,N,N-trimethylamino)hexyl)-fluorene-alt-cobenzoxadia 
zole dibromide] (PFBD), was applied into OSCs with an inverted structure as electron transporting 
material (ETM) to improve the OSCs’ performance. The OSCs using PFBD as the ETM exhibited 
a better power conversion efficiency (PCE) and improved stability. Through study of the so-called 
light-soaking effect observed in our OSCs based on PFBD, we found that the change of work 
function of ITO electrodes modified by PFBD plays an important role in influencing the OSCs’ 

-----
performance. Based on these findings, we proposed some guidelines for designing and developing 
highly efficient CPE materials for ETMs in OSCs. Second, we studied the factors that can 
influence the performance of PrSCs by applying a series of newly synthesized p-type polymers 
into PrSCs as hole transporting materials (HTMs). These polymer HTMs have almost the same 
band energy levels but different crystallinity, thus demonstrating different performance when 
applied into PrSCs. So except for band alignment between HTMs and photoactive layers, 
crystallization of the HTMs is also very important. The polymer HTM with the highest 
crystallinity has the best performance with a PCE of 14.02%. Last, we designed and fabricated 
fully printable OSCs and PrSCs by using a transfer printing technique to deposit electrodes. 
Compared with the traditional thermally or E-beam evaporating methods, our transfer printing 
method introduced less defects into organic layers and improved the performance and stability of 
OSCs and PrSCs. This transfer printing process is also compatible with the roll-to-roll 
manufacturing process and can significantly reduce the manufacturing costs of OSCs and PrSCs.  
 

-----
