Abstract 
III-Nitride materials have gathered enormous attention and undergone fast development, due 
to superior properties such as wide band gap, high stability, high electron motilities, high break 
down voltage and sensitivity to ultraviolet light. GaN ultraviolet (UV) detector can be used in fire 
detecting, missile’s seeker, combustion process monitoring and other monitoring systems, which 
require UV detection in harsh environments. Tunability of band gap and the possibility of 
formation of heterostructures with group III-nitride materials allow the design of complex 
structures to detect both UV and infra-red (IR) spectral regimes (multi band) on a single chip.  By 
growing AlGaN/GaN quantum well layers, IR detector can also be obtained, which means IR and 
UV detector can be achieved using same material. GaN based UV/IR detectors can be grown on 
sapphire, Si or SiC substrate, but sapphire and SiC substrates are more expensive than Si. Moreover, 
development of such a technology on Si allows lower cost and opens the prospect of integration 
of III-nitride with Si technology. In this work, plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy (PA-MBE) 
is used to grow multi band detector heterostructures on Si substrate.   
UV/IR dual band detectors grown on sapphire substrates have been reported. Demonstration of 
multiband detectors without any optical filter has also been reported. However, growth of such 
detectors on Si is challenging due to large difference of thermal and lattice mismatch between Si 
(111) substrate and GaN, which leads to tensile strain and cracking. In this thesis, material 
properties, parameters for growth optimization and device performance of GaN-based photo 
detector structures grown on Si will be discussed. The effect of the AlN layer on the surface and 
crystal quality of GaN is studied. GaN and AlGaN layers with different Si concentration have been 
studied. Doping concentration is stable throughout the growth as observed in secondary ion mass 
spectroscopy (SIMS) and the crystal quality does not degrade after doping. Crack free Si doped 

-----
GaN with RMS roughness less than 1 nm is successfully grown on Si (111) substrates up to 4 inch. 
Si doped AlGaN with Al composition of 30% is also obtained on both Si (111) substrate and 
MOCVD grown AlN/Si template. Highest Si doping of 3×1020 cm-3 is achieved with RMS 
roughness less than 1 nm. The achievement of almost crack-free wafers with total epilayer 
thickness up to 1.3 to 1.4 µm can be attributed to the lower thermal stress from low temperature 
operation of PA-MBE growth process. Smooth and crack-free multilayer structures for UV and IR 
photo detector application have been successfully grown on 4 inch Si substrate. 
UV photo detectors are fabricated and characterized for electrical and optical properties. 
During device fabrication, the etching recipe is modified to get uniform and smooth etching surface. 
Device size may also affect the performance, and hence different mesas namely interdigitated and 
square detectors are fabricated to understand the effects of device dimensions. Electrodes are 
fabricated after dry etching by the evaporation of Ti/Al/Ti/Au in that order on both bottom and top 
layers. The devices are annealed using rapid thermal processing (RTP) to achieve ohmic contacts. 
UV photo current under different applied bias and different wavelengths of the incident light is 
measured. UV photo responsivity is calculated from photo current measurements. It is found 
interdigitated electrodes shows higher responsivity and highest responsivity of 5.7A/W is obtained. 
IR photo detectors are also fabricated using similar process and low temperature IR photo 
responsivity measurements is conducted. Obvious response in middle IR region (4.5 µm) is 
observed at 50K. Room temperature of similar structure shows response in UV region and highest 
UV responsivity of 10mA/W is achieved. 
 
 
 

-----
Publication List 
Conference: 
1. Yi Zheng, Manvi Agrawal, K. Radhakrishnan, N. Dharmarasu, G. S. Karthikeyan, A. G. Unil 
Perera, Annalisa Bruno, Cesare Soci, “AlGaN-based UV-photodetector heterostructure on Si (111) 
substrate grown by PA-MBE”, in 2017 International Workshop on UV Materials and Devices 
(IWUMD), Nov. 2017. 
2. Y. Zheng, M. Agrawal, N. Dharmarasu, and K. Radhakrishnan, “Growth of AlGaN/GaN multiple 
quantum well structure on 4-inch Si by plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy for infrared 
photodetector”, in 2017 International Conference on Intersubband Transitions in Quantum Wells 
(ITQW), Sep. 2017. 
3. Yi ZHENG, K. RADHAKRISHNAN, Dharmarasu NETHAJI, Manvi AGRAWAL, “Si Doped 
Al0.3Ga0.7N Grown on 4-inch Si (111) Substrate by Plasma Assisted Molecular Beam Epitaxy (PA-
MBE)”, in 2017 International Conference on Materials for Advanced Technologies (ICMAT), Jun. 
2017. 
4. Yi ZHENG, Ravikiran LINGAPARTHI, K. RADHAKRISHNAN, Dharmarasu NETHAJI, Manvi 
AGRAWAL, Unil PERERA, “Group III-nitride Heterojunction Based Multi-Band Detector on Si 
(111) Substrate Grown by Plasma Assisted     Molecular Beam Epitaxy (PA-MBE)”, in 2016  
International Conference on Electronic Materials (ICEM), Jul. 2016. 
Journal papers: 
1. M. Agrawal, L. Ravikiran, N. Dharmarasu, K. Radhakrishnan, G. S. Karthikeyan, and   Y. Zheng, 
“Stress evolution of GaN/AlN heterostructure grown on 6H-SiC substrate by plasma assisted 
molecular beam epitaxy”, AIP Advances 7, 015022 (2017). 
Journal papers under preparation: 
1. Ga/Si interfusion blocking during GaN growth on Si (111) substrate by PA-MBE 
2. High level Si doping in GaN and Al0.3Ga0.7N grown by PA-MBE 
3. Novel designed AlGaN/GaN based photo conductive UV detector grown on Si (111) substrate by 
PA-MBE 
4. AlGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells structure grown for mid-IR photo detector application. 
 

-----
