Catheter-based High-resolution Optical Coherence Tomography 
Luo Yuemei (G1303278D) 
Abstract 
Coronary artery disease and gastrointestinal (GI) cancers are among the top killers 
worldwide and in Singapore. Acute myocardial infarction (AMI, = heart attack) is one 
of the leading causes of global morbidity and mortality. Due to the high prevalence and 
high risk of AMI, identification of vulnerable plaque associated with AMI is critical for 
early detection and subsequently interventional treatment. Esophageal, gastric and 
colorectal cancers are among the commonly diagnosed cancers worldwide and early 
diagnosis of cancers is vital for the effective therapeutics. Neoplasia of the GI tracts 
which easily develops into cancer usually arises from the epithelium of the mucosa. It 
is impossible to take biopsy from coronary arteries. Even though biopsies can be 
routinely taken from GI tissues, the ability to detect early neoplastic changes in GI 
tracts at early stages is still limited. Therefore, a nondestructive imaging tool such as 
intracoronary/transendoscopic optical coherence tomography (OCT) is critical for 
improving diagnostic accuracy.  
Owing to the histology-grade resolution and the non-invasive property, micro-OCT 
(µOCT) has become a promising alternative imaging tool to obtain depth-resolved real-
time images. However, µOCT is still limited toward clinical translation to visualize GI 
tracts and coronary arteries to date due to the lack of a miniature and flexible probe to 
reach the target area of internal organs. In this dissertation, we proposed and fabricated 
a µOCT endomicroscopy system with a miniature and flexible probe, and then verified 
its feasibility for ex vivo visualization of the cellular-level morphological information in 
GI tracts and coronary arteries. 
One of the major technical difficulties with μOCT to image tissue in vivo is well-known 
trade-off between the lateral resolution and depth-of-focus (DOF). A high lateral 
resolution with 1-3 µm usually shortens the DOF to tens of micrometers, which 
precludes practical applications of µOCT endomicroscopy when imaging through a 
relatively thick tissue depth. To moderately extend the DOF, a fiber-optics probe with 
annular apodization design was adopted in this study. Besides, we also employed a 

-----
rigid sheath surrounding the probe to mitigate the issue of limited DOF so that area of 
interests was properly maintained around the relative small focal region. 
The dispersion caused by the optical components is another issue affecting the axial 
resolution and the image quality. To alleviate the effect of chromatic dispersion, we 
proposed a common path design, so that the sample and reference arms share almost 
the same path. In addition, the polarization mismatch between the sample and reference 
arms can be eliminated during the rotation of the probe for circumferential scanning.  
The novelty of this study includes: 1) the annular apodization design of the probe that 
moderately extends the DOF without compromising lateral resolution; 2) usage of a 
rigid sheath to mitigate the limited DOF; 3) the common path design to minimize the 
dispersion and polarization mismatch; 4) We are the first in the world to demonstrate 
cellular resolution imaging of GI tissue and coronary atherosclerosis using a fiber-optic 
catheter. These results demonstrate µOCT endomicroscope is potentially an in vivo 
histological diagnostic tool for screening precancerous lesions and for the assessment 
of plaque vulnerability.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

-----
