ABSTRACT 
 
Energy efficient semiconductor chips are in high demand to cater the needs of today’s smart 
products. Advanced technology node designs insert higher design margins to deal with rising 
variations at the cost of power, area and performance. Existing run time resilience techniques 
are designed for worst case and are not cost effective due to the additional circuits involved. 
In-situ error correction and Dynamic Voltage Scaling (DVS) for power aware variation 
tolerance incur huge cost overheads for error recovery.  Moreover, such techniques are prone 
to meta-stability issues due to run time design margining.  We propose four resilient processor 
subsystems which incorporates slack balancing circuits to relax the timing margins of a 
processor pipeline together with logic under design for power and area savings while still 
ensuring correct functionality at worst operating conditions. The first subsystem utilizes 
positive slack available in the pipeline stages and re-distributes it to the preceding error-prone 
critical paths using Slack Balancing Flip-Flops (SBFFs) which has a redundant latch to sample 
the late arriving data. We use cell downsizing to reshape the SBFF fan-in cone to get power 
and area savings of 12% and 8% respectively compared to the worst-case design. The second 
subsystem uses library based power optimization techniques together with SBFFs. Here we 
prune the SBFF standard cell library to filter out the power-hungry cells. In addition to this, we 
use Better than Worst Case (BTWC) sigma corner library to under design the logic whose slack 
margins are relaxed by the SBFFs. This gave a power and area savings of 47% and 3% 
respectively in the execute pipeline stage. The third subsystem proposes a Clock Stretching 
Flip-Flop (CSFF) to remove the redundancy inside SBFFs which leads to better power and area 
savings. Also, we use multi-bit flipflops here to simplify the design and a combination of logic 
reshaping and BTWC sigma corner libraries to get a power and area savings of 32% and 16% 
respectively in the fetch pipeline stage and 69% and 15% respectively in the execute pipeline 
stage compared to the traditional worst case design. In the fourth subsystem, we use Data 
Dependent Clock Stretching Flip-Flop (DDCSFF) in addition to simple CSFFs to replace the 
critical endpoints with sufficiently low activity rates. Here we use logic reshaping for power 
optimization together with CSFFs and DDCSFFs. Experiment results show that we get power 
and area savings of 70% and 9.5% respectively in the execute pipeline stage with respect to 
worst case design. For all the proposed subsystems, the design time resilience approach using 
opportunistic slack and the logic under design eliminates error handling overheads, latency 
overheads, critical operating point behaviour, meta-stability issues and hold buffer overheads 
encountered in existing run time resilience techniques. 

-----
