PHYSICS-BASED COMPACT MODELING OF QUASI-BALLISTIC TRANSISTORS 
ABSTRACT 
This Ph.D. study deals with the development of physics-based compact models for 
advanced semiconductor devices with a focus on quasi-ballistic (QB) transistors. The initial 
part of the thesis deals with Fermi potential modeling of III-V (InGaAs)-based High Electron 
Mobility Transistors with rectangular quantum well. The III-V material based devices usually 
have higher mobility due to their large mean free path (λ). When compared to silicon-based 
devices, the large λ devices show a faster onset of ballistic effects with channel length 
scaling. The drift-diffusion (DD) based devices are scattering limited whereas the QB 
devices are limited by the injection velocity. The mobility (µ), which is defined in a scattering 
dominant environment, loses its validity in QB regime. Hence, the DD based models cannot 
be used to study the physics of devices operating in QB regime. Similarly, the QB models in 
literature fail to capture the DD device physics.  The current literature lacks models that 
exclusively study the DD to QB transition even though DD and QB devices have been well 
modeled individually.  
In the major part of this thesis, critical length (δ), defined based on the thermal 
energy drop with respect to the virtual source, is presented as a better parameter for  
ballisticity. The δ is derived from the Quasi-2D solution of the Poisson equation and 
captures the device parameter (oxide thickness, body thickness, doping, and channel 
length) dependencies. The proposed model is validated with extracted Monte-Carlo 
simulation results from the literature. The model can be used to predict the onset of ballistic 
behavior based on the relative magnitude of the δ to λ. The δ model is further used to 
calculate the apparent µ, which could be used similarly to diffusive µ to predict the electrical 
characteristics in QB regime. To exclusively study the DD to QB transition, the velocity vs. 
electric field characteristics of the DD devices is extended to the QB regime. This new 
approach is used for an in-depth analysis of the transition region in conceptual MOS 
devices. The impact of various material parameters like λ, thermal velocity, and saturation 
velocity are well studied at different channel length scales. The proposed model tallies well 
with the DD and QB regime device physics. The model is also tested for its temperature 
dependence, which is, to the best of our knowledge, the first in literature. The model is 
validated with SOI measurement data for channel lengths spanning from DD to QB regimes. 
The last part of the thesis focuses on the study of QB transport on the low-frequency 
noise (LFN). A modified (gm/Id)2 method for the subthreshold regime is proposed to aid in 
characterizing the LFN origin. Also, the recent measurement results on devices operating in 
ballistic regime show LFN scaling trend that cannot be explained using the well-established 
carrier number (CNF) and correlated mobility fluctuation (CMF) theories developed for DD 
devices. The CNF/CMF theory is extended to the QB regime to give a physical explanation 
for the anomalous LFN scaling behavior. The proposed models are validated with 
measurement data extracted from the literature. 

-----
