Abstract 
Low power and low jitter equalization becomes increasingly crucial for wireline receivers 
entering data rate more than ten gigabits per second. Different techniques for equalization at 
the receiver end has already been proposed in the past. Many of these solutions, though are 
highly suitable for datarates > 25 Gb/s, are not power and area efficient to be used in compact 
wireline SoCs, owing to the use of bulky inductors which are necessary to meet the desired 
bandwidth. The widely used equalizers also tend to ignore the low frequency loss in the 
channel, while addressing the traditional high frequency loss in the channel. However, over 
long measurement intervals, the low frequency loss manifests as increased data dependant jitter 
and worsens the timing integrity of the equalized signal. 
In this thesis, three different power efficient inductorless analog equalizer designs that 
improve the timing integrity of the equalized signal are proposed. All the designs are 
implemented in 65 nm CMOS process technology node. The first equalizer design which 
operates at 13 Gb/s, proposes a dedicated low frequency equalizer based on active feedback 
which also improves the bandwidth in the absence of inductive loading. The inductorless 
equalizer design counters the low frequency channel loss in addition to the intermediate-to-
high frequency loss from a 15 dB channel. The proposed equalizer improves the measured data 
jitter of a conventional linear equalizer from 0.41 UI to 0.12 UI for a pseudorandom binary 
sequence (PRBS) of 231-1.  
The second equalizer design proposes and inductorless and power-efficient 32 Gb/s 
hybrid analog equalizer. The hybrid analog equalizer utilizes a triple-gate control which entails 
that a low frequency equalization is simultaneously achieved at minimum area overhead. 
Bandwidth extension is also aided by a negative capacitance circuit at the output of the 
equalizer. The maximum equalization achieved is 21 dB at Nyquist, with a peak-to-peak data 

-----
jitter of 0.17 UI at 32 Gb/s for a 231-1 PRBS input. The prototype exhibits a competitive power 
efficiency of 0.53 mW/Gb/s under a supply voltage of 1.2 V. 
The third design proposed an inductorless 32 Gb/s wireline receiver analog front end 
(AFE) with a linear equalizer and a novel half-rate distributed decision feedback (DFE) scheme 
for edge and data equalization. The proposed distributed DFE scheme addresses the problem 
of edge ISI, thus ensuring better timing intersymbol interference (ISI) at the clock edges which 
in turn helps in accurate sampling of the data edges while maintaining the eye-height at the 
centre of the sampled data. Measurement results suggest that the proposed design exhibits a 
power efficiency of 3.53 mW/Gb/s at a supply voltage of 1.2 V and exhibits a BER < 10-12 at 
a datarate of 32 Gb/s. 

-----
