Title 
High Throughput VLSI Architecture for Gradient Guided Filter with Approximated 
Arithmetic Operations 
 
Abstract 
Guided image filtering has been applied widely for increasing demand of high 
performance filtering, especially for real-time image/video processing. Gradient guided 
filter improves the filtering quality, reducing the halo-artifacts problem due to its edge-
aware characteristics. However, the gradient guided filter algorithm has high 
computation complexity and the computation that involves global pixel, which hinder 
its VLSI implementation for real-time full-HD application. This work addresses the 
above issues and a VLSI architecture is proposed for the gradient guided image filter. 
Subsampling technique is adopted in different stages to reduce computation cost in 
terms of circuit size, processing speed and power consumption. The output stage uses 
parallel processing to restore the image to its full-HD size and to achieve high 
throughput. In addition, the intensive arithmetic computation modules that dominate 
the critical path delay have been redesigned by adequate approximated operations. 
Specifically, non-iterative dividers are introduced to replace original dividers for 
reducing delays in critical paths, at the cost of size and accuracy. With the proposed 
non-iterative division, the division result is modeled as a normalized curved surface for 
further approximation after partitioning. Curve fitting method and mixed integer linear 
programming method are adopted and evaluated for local optimization of the 
approximation errors. In this way, the dividers are implemented with only simple 
arithmetic operations and look-up tables. Another intensive computation, the 
exponentiation function, is also simplified by piecewise linear approximation, and 
implemented with only shifters and adder trees. As such, the approximated 
computations are used to improve the computation performance and simplify the 
designs of the complex arithmetic modules. The trade-offs for the individual modules 
and the overall architecture are analyzed and evaluated for different design decisions. 
Based on STM 90nm CMOS technology, the synthesis result shows the proposed VLSI 
architecture for the gradient guided image filter is able to support Full-HD image 
filtering at a throughput above 60 frame/s, achieving high throughput, small size and 
low power consumption comparing to the existing VLSI design for the original guided 
image filtering. 
 
This thesis describes the proposed VLSI architecture, the details of its design, the 
designs of the non-iterative dividers and the design of the piecewise linear 
approximated exponential function. The analysis of the impact of the approximations 
on the filtering results and the performance comparisons of the proposed designs and 
the existing designs are included. 

-----
