HIGH-EFFICIENCY POWER AMPLIFIER DESIGN FOR 
DIGITAL RF POLAR TRANSMITTERS 
Abstract 
This Master of Engineering research project pertains to the analysis, design, and IC realization of a high power-
efficiency Class-E Power Amplifier (PA) capable of generating a varying-envelope output signal for digital Radio-
Frequency (RF) Polar transmitters in portable applications, with emphases on small circuit area and low power 
dissipation based on 40nm CMOS processes technology. 
In this project, we propose a high-efficiency Class-E PA for RF Polar transmitters.   The PA embodies a 
proposed novel digitally-controlled matching network (MN) with the following salient features: 
1. The MN is directly controlled by the digital Amplitude Modulation (AM) data.   It obviates the need for 
the conventional supply modulator, thereby reducing the area and power dissipation.   The MN comprises 
passive devices and transistors/switches.   In contrast to those power transistors in the supply modulator 
that are driving a large current, the transistors employed by the MN are small-form-factor low-power 
digital transistors.  
2. The MN performs the dynamic load modulation (DLM) with a high-efficiency.   In this modulation, the 
load impedance seen by the PA is varied according to the AM data.   To achieve a high-efficiency operation, 
the MN transfer the load-impedance to the value required by the Zero-Voltage Switching (ZVS) condition, 
which is ideally a lossless switching, at the PA. 
3. Conventional MNs for dynamic load modulation can only employ low quality-factor on-chip inductors. 
The proposed MN has a novel network architecture that can choose to employ on-, or off-chip inductors, 
or both inductor types.   This means that high quality-factor bond-wires can be employed to improve the 
efficiency.  
 
The proposed Class-E PA embodying the novel digitally-controlled DLM MN is designed using the TSMC 40 
nm CMOS technology.   Simulation results at 2.4 GHz carrier frequency and 1.1 V supply show that the PA achieves 
a high drain efficiency of 48% at peak output power of 17 dBm.   The power efficiency is 10% higher power-
efficiency compared to that of current-art power amplifiers based on the same simulation conditions.     An IC of 
the proposed PA has been fabricated and will be measured to verify the proposed PA design. 
 
 
 

-----
