Abstract 
In this thesis, we study and exploit two approaches to building up robust 
classification and detection methods, namely embedding a reject option into 
classifiers and designing multi-stage (or cascaded) classification/detection structures. 
The reject option embedding enhances the classification robustness through 
inclusion of an effective rejection rule for potentially misclassified samples. The multi-
stage methods incorporate multiple classifiers/detectors to jointly and robustly 
address classification/detection tasks. Based on these two approaches, this thesis 
investigates ways to propose robust classification/detection methods with real-world 
applications of biomedical images.  
 
Classification and detection of biomedical images usually hold a premise of further 
biological 
and 
medical 
analyses, 
e.g., 
disease 
treatment. 
Manual 
classification/detection of biomedical images is prone to subjectivity and suffers from 
inefficiency due to high-throughput production of images in practice. Hence, it is 
greatly 
demanded 
for 
automating 
the 
process 
of 
biomedical 
image 
classification/detection. In general, miss classification or false detection of 
biomedical images is high-cost especially for certain diagnosis processes, e.g., 
cancer prediction. Also, automated biomedical image classification/detection could 
confront the challenges of high level noise, image blur, illumination variation and 
complicated geometric correspondence among various categorical biomedical 
patterns. Therefore, it is valuable to propose robust classification/detection methods 
in real-world applications related to biomedical images. 
 
Firstly, the thesis proposes a novel method which embeds a reject option in twin 
support vector machine (RO-TWSVM) through the Receiver Operating Characteristic 
(ROC) curve for binary classification. The proposed RO-TWSVM can achieve robust 
classification by rejecting both ambiguous and outlier samples. 
 
Secondly, the thesis investigates a two-stage classification method based on a 
cascade of an SVM with a reject option and subspace analysis. Such method is 
formulated to robustly classify biomedical images with different geometric 
correspondence.  
 
Thirdly, the thesis proposes a novel two-stage method for automated detection of 
ring-like endosomes in fluorescent microscopy images. The proposed method firstly 
roughly localizes candidate targets using local feature information. Then, it refines 
the detection results by ruling out endosome-like background patterns from a 
classification perspective based on global information of training patches. These two 
stages jointly produce robust detections in real-world microscopy images. 
 
Overall, this thesis contributes two types of novel methods to enhance robustness of 
classification/detection models: (i) Embedding a reject option in in twin support 
vector machine (RO-TWSVM) through the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) 
curve; (ii) Proposing multi-stage methods which exploits complementary feature 
information to address image classification/detection tasks. The superiority of the 
proposed methods in this thesis is shown in the specific applications of real-world 
biomedical images. 
 

-----
