RANGING-BASED ADAPTIVE NAVIGATION FOR AUTONOMOUS
MICRO AERIAL VEHICLES
THESIS ABSTRACT
Nguyen Pham Nhat Thien Minh
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Nanyang Technological University
50 Nanyang Avenue, Singapore, 639798
May 16, 2019
Recent decade has witnessed a surge in popularity of Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) with applica-
tions in many civilian, industrial and military applications. Essentially, for successful maneuver of
MAVs, or mobile robots in general, two problems need to be adequately addressed: localization and
navigation, or estimation and control in a more general sense. Most commonly we find that these
two problems are addressed in separate manner, whereas localization capability is usually the primal
assumption, upon which different navigation strategies can be developed. While this approach may
facilitate convenient solution and analysis, it also brings about several limitations. On one hand, for
long-range operations of MAVs, or cooperative operations involving a large number of MAVs, while
the most viable option for localization would be some artificially installed localization infrastructure,
applications based on these system have low adaptability to different and complex environments. On
the other hand, by employing only onboard sensors, visual navigation techniques can offer a much
more flexible method for MAV localization in GPS-denied environments. However, vision-based
techniques tend to suffer from long-term estimation drift. Moreover, they are only effective for
single MAV application. In multi-MAVs operations, since each visual localization system uses a
different frame of reference, collaborative operations between the MAVs wouldn’t be possible if
there is no prior knowledge to convert the position information from one frame to another. These
imitations motivate the research in this thesis to seek new methods for operation of MAVs with
minimal deployment cost and adequate flexibility.
Inspired by the aforementioned issues, the objective of this thesis is to develop an integrated
estimation-control scheme that can achieve a high level of flexibility, portability and practicality for
autonomous navigational tasks of MAVs in GPS-denied environment. As a first expedition into this
direction, a sensor fusion scheme is proposed to achieve relative positioning and tracking of a target
by MAV using Ultra-wideband (UWB) ranging sensors strategically installed on both the MAV and
the target. To achieve robust localization for autonomous flight even with uncertainty in the speed
of the target, two main features are developed. First, an estimator based on Extended Kalman Filter
(EKF) is developed to fuse UWB ranging measurements with data from onboard sensors including
inertial measurement unit (IMU), altimeters and optical flow. Second, to properly handle the coupling
of the target’s orientation with the range measurements, UWB based communication capability is
utilized to transfer the target’s orientation to the quadcopter. Experiment results demonstrate the
ability of the quadcopter to control its position relative to the target autonomously in both cases when
the target is static and moving.
While the aforementioned sensor fusion scheme can offer reliable and robust target tracking
capability, it may not be effective for long range navigation task. Thus a new problem with the
objective of navigating a MAV to desired location while estimating its position relative to a single
static landmark is studied. In this investigation a relative localization algorithm was developed to
estimate the position of the MAV relative to the landmark by using only distance and displace-
ment measurements. Since these measurements can be easily obtained from generic but efficient

-----
MAY 16, 2019
ranging and vision-based self-localization techniques, the estimation-control scheme can achieve
independence from extensive external localization system, thus can be adopted in many environments
(portability) without incurring high setup and maintenance cost (flexibility). Based on this estimation,
a control scheme is delicately designed to ensure asymptotic convergence of the estimation as well
as the docking objectives. Regarding practicality, to ensure maximal compatibility with real-world
implementation, all dynamics, estimation and control processses are directly formulated and analysed
under a discrete-time framework. Moreover, to avoid overburdening the physical system, constraint on
bounded control input is also considered in the design of the control law. By employing discrete-time
LaSalle’s invariance principle, asymptotic convergence of the navigation task can be established in
the noise-free case, and the stability under distance measurement noise is also investigated. Compre-
hensive simulation and real-world experiments are conducted to demonstrate the efficiency of our
method.
Based on the investigations on sensor fusion for target tracking and single landmark navigation, the
two ranging-based relative localization scheme is further extended and combined in an autonomous
docking of MAV on moving target. Though vision-based techniques have become quite popular
for autonomous docking of MAVs, due to limited field of view (FOV), the MAV must rely on
other methods to detect and approach the target before vision can be used. A method combining
sequential ranging of Ultra-wideband sensor with vision-based techniques is developed to achieve both
autonomous approaching and landing capabilities in GPS-denied environments. In the approaching
phase, an exponentially convergent recursive least-square optimization algorithm is proposed to
estimate the position of the MAV relative to the target by using the distance and relative displacement
measurements. Using this estimate, MAV is able to efficiently approach the target until the landing
pad is detected by an onboard vision system, then UWB measurements and vision-derived poses
are fused with onboard sensor of MAV to facilitate an accurate landing maneuver. Real-world
experiments are conducted to demonstrate the efficiency of our method.
So far the aforementioned problems only focus on navigation of single MAV. However, compared
with a single MAV, a team of MAVs will increase the efficiency in carrying out cooperative tasks
such as mapping, inspection or coverage. In logistics, a MAV team can also be used to transport a
payload to some locations that ground robots cannot access. While there are many works discussing
multi-UAV navigation and coordination strategies using relative position or bearing measurements,
the practicality of these strategies is uncertain as direct measurement of relative states is a strong
assumption from a technological point of view. This motivated us to apply the distance-displacement
based relative localization technique to such cooperative multi-robot schemes. Specifically, we
investigate the problem of controlling a multi-robot team to follow a leader in formation, supported
by relative position estimate derived from distance and self-displacement measurements. The main
challenge of the problem, which is to simultaneous fulfill both relative localization and control tasks, is
efficiently resolved by embedding a distance-based persistently excited adaptive relative localization
technique into a time-varying formation with bounded control input (PEARL-TVF). By assuming
that the leader is globally reachable and selecting proper parameters, it is shown that PEARL-TVF
ensures exponentially convergent localization, which leads to exponentially convergent formation
when the leader’s behavior is deterministic, and bounded formation error for a non-deterministic
leader. Extensive numerical simulations and real-world implementations are carried out to verify the
theoretical results and demonstrate the efficacy as well as effectiveness of the proposed method.
Publications
[1] Thien-Minh Nguyen, Zhirong Qiu, Muqing Cao, Thien Hoang Nguyen, and Lihua Xie. Single Landmark
Distance-based Navigation. IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 2019.
[2] Thien-Minh Nguyen, Zhirong Qiu, Thien Hoang Nguyen, Muqing Cao, and Lihua Xie. Distance-based cooperative
relative localization for leader-following control of aerial robots. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (Under
Review), 2019.
[3] Thien-Minh Nguyen, Zhirong Qiu, Thien Hoang Nguyen, Muqing Cao, and Lihua Xie. Persistently-excited
adaptive relative localization and time-varying formation of robotic swarms. IEEE Transactions on Robotics
(Under Review), 2019.
[4] Thien-Minh Nguyen, Thien Hoang Nguyen, Muqing Cao, Zhirong Qiu, and Lihua Xie. Integrated UWB-
Vision Approach for Autonomous Docking of UAVs in GPS-Denied Environments. In 2019 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Montreal, QC, Canada, May 2019. IEEE.
2

-----
MAY 16, 2019
[5] Thien-Minh Nguyen, Zhirong Qiu, Muqing Cao, Thien Hoang Nguyen, and Lihua Xie. An integrated localization-
navigation scheme for distance-based docking of uavs. In 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 5245–5250, Madrid, Spain, 2018. IEEE.
[6] Thien-Minh Nguyen, Abdul Hanif Zaini, Chen Wang, Kexin Guo, and Lihua Xie.
Robust target-relative
localization with ultra-wideband ranging and communication. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pages 2312–2319, Brisbane, QLD, Australia, 2018. IEEE.
[7] Chen Wang, Tete Ji, Thien-Minh Nguyen, and Lihua Xie. Correlation flow: robust optical flow using kernel
cross-correlators. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 836–841,
Madrid, Spain, 2018. IEEE.
[8] Chen Wang, Handuo Zhang, Thien-Minh Nguyen, and Lihua Xie. Ultra-wideband aided fast localization and
mapping system. In 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages
1602–1609, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2017. IEEE.
[9] Thien Hoang Nguyen, Muqing Cao, Thien-Minh Nguyen, and Lihua Xie. Post-mission autonomous return and
precision landing of uav. In 2018 15th International Conference on Control, Automation, Robotics and Vision
(ICARCV), pages 1747–1752, Singapore, 2018. IEEE.
[10] Xu Fang, Chen Wang, Thien-Minh Nguyen, and Lihua Xie. Model-free approach for sensor network localization
with noisy distance measurement. In 2018 15th International Conference on Control, Automation, Robotics and
Vision (ICARCV), pages 1973–1978, Singapore, 2018. IEEE.
[11] Thien Minh Nguyen, Abdul Hanif Zaini, Kexin Guo, and Lihua Xie. An ultra-wideband-based multi-uav
localization system in gps-denied environments. In 2016 International Micro Air Vehicle Competition and
Conference (IMAV), Beijing, China, 2016.
[12] Kexin Guo, Zhirong Qiu, Wei Meng, and Lihua Xie. Relative localization for quadcopters using ultra-wideband
sensors. In 2016 International Micro Air Vehicle Competition and Conference (IMAV), Beijing, China, 2016.
[13] Thien-Minh Nguyen, Xiuxian Li, and Lihua Xie. Barrier coverage by heterogeneous sensor network with input
saturation. In 11th Asian Control Conference (ASCC), pages 1719–1724, Gold Coast, QLD, Australia, 2017.
IEEE.
[14] Thien-Minh Nguyen and Lihua Xie.
Least-square based recursive optimization for distance-based source
localization. In 2018 14th IEEE International Conference on Control and Automation (ICCA), pages 75–80,
Anchorage, AK, USA, 2018. IEEE.
3

-----
