1 
 
Ph.D. Candidate: 
ZHOU Yu 
 
Affiliation:  
School 
of 
Electrical 
and 
Electronic 
Engineering, 
Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore 
 
Tentative Thesis Title: 
Characterization of Nanoscale Conducting Filament in High-k Oxides 
by Scanning Tunneling Microscopy and Conductive Atomic Force 
Microscopy 
 
 
 
 

-----
2 
 
Tentative Thesis Abstract 
 
By virtue of its simple structure, high operating speed and scalability, the resistive 
memory or RRAM is deemed a promising alternative to the charge-based memory, 
which is now facing severe scaling challenges. Of particular interest is the HfO2 
RRAM due to its immediate compatibility with mainstream integrated-circuit 
technology. A major problem is, however, the relatively high switching current. 
Currents on the order of 10-3 A are typically observed in large-area cells (~10-8 cm2). 
In a recent work, a substantial reduction of the switching current to ~10-5 A was 
achieved by scaling the cell area down to 100 nm2.  
Since one of the main strengths of RRAM is scalability, a further reduction of the 
switching current is deemed necessary in order to make ultra-high density memory 
application viable. At present, it is unclear to what extent could the switching current 
be reduced with cell area scaling. To address this question, resistance switching in 
HfO2 is examined using a conductive atomic force microscope (C-AFM) and 
scanning tunneling microscope (STM) in this thesis. The excellent spatial resolution 
of C-AFM and STM enables the electrical properties of a thin dielectric to be probed 
over an extremely localized region. Through the C-AFM/STM technique, in this 
thesis, we examined resistance switching in a 4-nm thick HfO2, within a region of ~2 
nm in diameter and achieved an ultra-low current switching capability.  
Furthermore, the unique abrupt reset behavior is observed in nanoscale RRAM 
with nanometer-level conducting filament (CF), on the contrary, the gradual current 

-----
3 
 
reduction trend is typically observed during the reset process in relatively large area 
RRAM device. We addressed the origin of the gradual resistance reset behavior by 
studying, via STM/C-AFM, the reset characteristic of the nanoscale CFs and its 
relation with the macroscopic gradual electrical reset behavior in device level. The 
statistical result shows that the nanoscale CFs tend to exhibit abrupt resistance reset 
behavior with significant variations in the reset voltage and current. It is shown that 
this wide variation of reset voltage and current contributes to the gradual resistance 
reset behavior observed in large area RRAM device with multiple nanoscale CFs 
formed beneath the top electrode. 
The memory device seldom works individually. The crossbar memory array is the 
most commonly used architecture. However, the fundamental problem of a crossbar 
memory array is the sneak-path current, which can severely compromise the integrity 
of data readout. To overcome the problem, a typical approach would be to connect a 
selection device, e.g. diode or transistor in series with each memory element, at the 
expense of a lower integration density and greater processing complexity. In this 
thesis, we show, via STM/C-AFM study, that the filamentary path in the HfOx 
dielectric could exhibit a highly asymmetrical conduction property when the forming 
hardness is appropriately controlled. The finding suggests possible exploitation for 
extremely compact cross-point bipolar resistive memory with built-in rectification. 
With the further scaling of the RRAM/MOSFET devices, electrical-stress-induced 
breakdown of the scaled thin gate oxide is a serious reliability issue that has received 
widespread attention for many years. Studies have shown that gate-oxide breakdown 

-----
4 
 
can be broadly classified as soft or hard. Ultra-thin gate oxides (< 5 nm) typically 
exhibit the former. As soft breakdown (SBD) typically does not lead to a total loss of 
transistor functionality, there has been much interest on the breakdown mechanism 
and its evolution towards eventual hard breakdown. With HfO2 replacing SiO2 as the 
gate oxide, recent attention was mostly centered on the reliability of the metal/HfO2 
gate stack. It has been found that SBD of HfO2 can be electrically reversed with a 
greater ease as compared to SiO2, prompting considerable interest on the recovery 
mechanism as well as the role of the metal electrode. In this thesis, we report that a 
nanoscale percolation path in SiO2 and HfO2 can be disrupted upon exposure to white 
light. The disruption is either complete or partial, depending on the resistance of the 
percolation path determined at the point of breakdown, i.e. the breakdown hardness. 
The electrical robustness of the light-restored oxide is tested and analyzed using 
statistical Weibull distributions. Unlike the classical photo-response behavior of 
narrow bandgap oxides and perovskites which is commonly manifested as an increase 
in electrical conduction due to the generation of excess charge carriers by the incident 
photons, the photo-response here comes in the form of a disruption of electrical 
conduction through the nanoscale conducting filament or percolation path formed 
during breakdown. When that occurs the insulating properties of the breakdown oxide 
region can be restored. The disruption in electrical conduction caused by white-light 
illumination is proposed to occur through photon-stimulated migration of interstitial 
oxygen ions nearby the vacancy-filled filament, resulting in the migrating oxygen ions 
recombining with the vacancies in the filament. This unique photo-responsive 

-----
5 
 
behavior, which we termed as negative photoconductivity (NPC) of SBD HfO2, ZrO2 
and SiO2 points towards the possibility of gate oxide reliability rejuvenation as well as 
the incorporation of optical functions into mainstream CMOS-based integrated 
circuits, e.g., imaging sensors and photodetectors with built-in non-volatile memory 
capability. As a photodetector, the relation between the CF disruption speed and the 
light intensity has been investigated, as well as the wavelength influence. The infrared 
light is proved to be effective for CF disruption on our device, indicating a possible 
room temperature infrared detector. A systematic study is presented in this thesis 
regarding the influence factors to the photosensitivity/CF disruption speed, such as the 
stoichiometry of the oxide layer, sample temperature, and the electrode dependence. 
 

-----
