ABSTRACT 
The resistive random access memory (RRAM) has shown the potential to become 
the future universal memory. Novel concept of complementary resistive switching 
(CRS) provides the promise of a high-density selector-less RRAM crossbar array 
implementation free of the sneak-path current problem. This thesis mainly focus on 
the device fabrication and investigations of CRS mechanism, CRS current conduction 
mechanism, self-compliance set switching (SCSS)  mechanism, CRS stability as well 
as CRS read voltage window in HfOx-based RRAM devices, for the implementation 
of high-performance RRAM device with the stable and reliable CRS. 
CRS has been demonstrated in the TiN/HfOx/IL/TiN device, where a bottom 
interfacial layer (IL) resulted from the oxidation of TiN during device fabrication. No 
CRS is observed in the TiN/HfOx/Pt device where formation of the bottom IL is 
suppressed by the inert Pt metal. It is found that IL between metal electrode and 
switching oxide plays an important role in enabling stable CRS in the HfOx-based 
single memory device. Physical switching model based on oxygen-ion exchange 
between the bottom/top IL and the conductive path in HfOx is proposed to have 
caused the CRS observed in the TiN/HfOx/IL/TiN device.  
The current conduction mechanism analysis reveals that Schottky emission is a 
dominant conduction mechanism of HRS in both BRS and CRS mode due to the same 
top/bottom TiN/HfOx interface in the symmetric TiN/HfOx/TiN resistive memory 
device. LRS current conduction can change from semiconducting (at low voltages) to 
metallic (at high voltages) conduction. In the former regime, conduction may be 
described by a farthest-neighbor tunneling process, characterized by a trap spacing of 

-----
~11 Å along the conduction path. On the other hand, the latter is characterized by a 
metal-like mechanism with a positive temperature coefficient like that of a sputtered 
Hf metal film. Field-induced lowering of the tunneling barrier (~43 meV due to the 
collapsed HfOx conduction band edge and the small trap spacing) is proposed to have 
caused the transition to a metal-like conduction. Due to the opposite temperature 
dependence of the two conduction regimes, existence of a zero temperature-
coefficient of LRS resistance has been observed. 
A complementary switch exhibiting SCSS can provide a pathway towards an 
implementation of truly selector-less crossbar memory array. SCSS has been realized 
in resistive memory devices with a series oxide layer incorporated into the memory 
stack. The series oxide acts as an in-built resistor, limiting the increase of the current 
during set transition. In this study, we show that SCSS is also present in the 
TiN/HfOx/Pt device without a series oxide layer. However, substitution of the TiN 
electrode by Pt eliminates the SCSS behavior. We propose that oxygen ions drifting 
from the ruptured part of the filament towards the TiN anode tend to accumulate at 
the TiN interface during set transition due to a low density of nitrogen vacancy in our 
nearly stoichiometric TiN electrode. Oxygen accumulation can give rise to an increase 
in the resistance of HfOx at the TiN interface, which can partially compensate the 
decrease of the filament resistance, and an increase in effective work function of TiN, 
which can offsets part of the applied electric field, resulting in a lower net electric 
field across the filament. 
Our study on CRS of TiN/HfOx/TiN memory device shows an unusually high 
occurrence of a self-reset behavior, i.e. the device is automatically programmed into 
the high resistance state during forming. This is observed in the following opposite-
polarity voltage sweep, in which the device exhibits a set behavior (instead of a reset 

-----
as typically observed in bipolar switching mode). However, the self-reset behavior is 
(1) suppressed in devices with a thin Al2O3 layer inserted in-between the TiN and 
HfOx; (2) completely eliminated in devices with the TiN cathode replaced by Pt. It is 
shown that the IL at the HfOx/TiN interface plays a crucial role in enabling CRS, via 
an oxygen exchange process with the adjacent conducting filament formed in the 
HfOx. Self-reset behavior can be ascribed to the migration of oxygen ions from the 
cathode interfacial oxide into the conducting filament in the HfOx during the forming 
transient, thus resulting in the disruption of the filament. With the reduction in 
“voltage loading” across the cathode interfacial oxide during forming transient in 
devices with the Al2O3 interlayer and the elimination of interfacial oxide in devices 
with the Pt cathode, the occurrence of self-reset is reduced or eradicated.  
Our study also shows that a large percentage of the TiN/HfOx/TiN RRAM device 
fails to exhibit CRS after forming. These devices exhibit a large non-polar reset loop 
in the first post-forming voltage-sweep measurement. It is proposed that breakdown 
of the TiN/HfOx interfacial oxide layers (crucial in enabling CRS) and the 
accompanied formation of Ti filaments (due to Ti migration from the TiN cathode 
into the breakdown path) take place, resulting in CRS failure and the observed non-
polar reset behavior. Our proposition is supported by the significant reduction or 
complete elimination of the large non-polar reset and CRS failure in devices with a 
thin Al2O3 layer incorporated at the TiN-cathode/HfOx or both TiN/HfOx interfaces. 
The higher breakdown field of the thin Al2O3 enables it to withstand the forming 
voltage (upon filament formation in the main oxide) until the forming process is 
interrupted. With the integrity of the barrier oxide layer ensured, stable CRS can be 
achieved. 
An approach that may lead to a significantly improved CRS voltage window and 

-----
read margin is presented. The approach is leveraged on the inherent asymmetry in the 
O-ion exchange process between interfaces involving different reactive metal 
electrodes to enlarge the difference between the set and reset voltages. The proof-of-
concept is successfully demonstrated for the ITO/HfOx/TiN resistive memory 
structure, yielding a positive CRS voltage window of 1.5 V and a read margin of 1.1 
V. These results represent a significant improvement over the respective window and 
margin of 0.5 V and 0.1 V achieved on the TiN/HfOx/TiN stack and other single 
devices reported to-date, and address a major challenge of array-level CRS 
implementation using HfOx RRAM on both rigid and flexible substrates. The 
improvement may be attributed to the greater tendency for O ion to migrate from the 
adjacent ruptured filament into the ITO (hence a small set voltage) and the relative 
difficulty in drawing O ions from the TiN IL into the adjacent filament (hence a large 
reset voltage).   
 

-----
