EPILEPSY DETECTION FROM SCALP EEG: A MACHINE
LEARNING APPROACH
John Thomas
Supervisor: Assoc. Prof. Justin Dauwels
11th September 2018
I. INTRODUCTION
Epilepsy refers to a group of chronic brain disorders which are characterized by unpredictable seizures. It is rated as
the fourth most common neurological disorder by the Epilepsy Foundation. Approximately 65 million people are affected
worldwide. An electroencephalogram (EEG) is a recording of the electrical activity of the brain collected by placing electrodes
on the scalp of subjects. Interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) that appear in the EEG are distinctive biomarkers of epilepsy.
IEDs are further categorized into sharp waves, spikes, spike-wave-complexes and polyspike-wave-complexes. We primarily
focus on spikes in this research. The presence of spikes allows a physician to make a confident diagnosis of epilepsy,
predict seizure recurrence, and prescribe an appropriate treatment. In current clinical practice, spikes have to be visually
identified by neurologists. This process is tedious and time-consuming. Moreover, there is significant disagreement over EEG
interpretation amongst experts. Spike detection is a difficult task as the spikes exhibit a large morphological variety across
patients. In addition, a standard definition of spikes is not available. Consequently, the reliability of the diagnosis heavily
depends on the experience and expertise of the experts. There exists a great need for epilepsy diagnosis system based on
automated spike detection. Automated spike detection would be more objective, faster, and potentially more accurate. Several
methods have been tested to develop reliable automated spike detection systems. Unfortunately, these methods have not been
validated on a sizable dataset and consequently are not universally accepted. We developed an automated EEG classification
system to detect epileptic EEGs based on IEDs. The system comprises of three major modules: preprocessing, waveform-
level classification, and EEG-level classification. The pre-processing module performs the necessary filtering, normalization,
and configures the EEG montage. The waveform-level classification module detects the various IED patterns in the EEG
signal. The EEG-level classification module is developed based on the output of the waveform-level classification to identify
epileptic EEGs. We employ a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN for waveform-level classification and a Support Vector
Machine (SVM) with Gaussian kernel for EEG-level classification. We developed and validated the system by applying a
dataset of 156 subjects (93 epileptic and 63 non-epileptic) with 18,164 annotated IEDs. The data was recorded according
to the International 10-20 electrode system from Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), Boston. We achieved a mean
4-fold classification accuracy of 83.86% for identifying EEGs with and without IEDs on the MGH dataset. We evaluated
our system trained on the MGH dataset, on EEG data recorded at different centers. We compared our system with Persyst’s,
the current market leader. Our system significantly outperformed Persyst for IED identification.
II. PUBLICATIONS
1) Rajamanickam Yuvaraj, John Thomas, Tilmann Kluge, and Justin Dauwels, Sydney S. Cash, and M. Brandon Westover.
”A deep Learning Scheme for Automatic Seizure Detection from Long-Term Scalp EEG.” Accepted for presentation
at Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers 2018 to be held on Oct. 28-31 at Pacific Grove, CA,
USA.
2) John Thomas, Rahul Rathakrishnan, Jing Jin, Justin Dauwels, Sydney S. Cash, and M. Brandon Westover. ”Machine
learning-based epileptic EEG identification system: a multi-center study.” Accepted for presentation at American
Epilepsy Society Annual Meeting 2018 to be held on Nov. 30-Dec. 4 at New Orleans, LA, USA.
3) Yuvaraj R, John Thomas, and Justin D. Hybrid deep convolutional neural network and hidden markov model for auto-
matic seizure detection from long-term scalp EEG. ICNF Neuroinformatics 2018, (doi: 10.7490/f1000research.1115871.1).
4) John Thomas, Luca Comoretto, Jing Jin, Justin Dauwels, Sydney S. Cash, and M. Brandon Westover. ”EEG Classifi-
cation via Convolutional Neural Network-Based Interictal Epileptiform Event Detection.” In Engineering in Medicine
and Biology Society (EMBC), 2018 40th Annual International Conference of the IEEE, 2018 (in press).
5) John Thomas, Sinha N, Shaju N, Maszczyk T, Jin J, Cash SS, et al. P290 Convolutional Neural Network-based
Interictal Epileptiform Discharge Detection, 26th Annual Computational Neuroscience Meeting (CNS*2017): Part 3.
BMC Neuroscience. 2017 Aug;18(1):60. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1186/ s12868-017-0372-1.
6) Dharamsi, Tejas, Payel Das, Tejaswini Pedapati, Gregory Bramble, Vinod Muthusamy, Horst Samulowitz, Kush R.
Varshney Rajamanickam, John Thomas, and Justin Dauwels. ”Neurology-as-a-Service for the Developing World.”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.06195 (2017).

-----
7) John Thomas, Jing Jin, Justin Dauwels, Sydney S. Cash, and M. Brandon Westover. ”Automated epileptiform spike
detection via affinity propagation-based template matching.” In Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC),
2017 39th Annual International Conference of the IEEE, pp. 3057-3060. IEEE, 2017.
8) John Thomas, Tomasz Maszczyk, Nishant Sinha, Tilmann Kluge, and Justin Dauwels. ”Deep learning-based classifi-
cation for brain-computer interfaces.” In Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC), 2017 IEEE International Conference
on, pp. 234-239. IEEE, 2017.
9) John Thomas, Jing Jin, Justin Dauwels, Sydney S. Cash, and M. Brandon Westover. ”Clustering of interictal spikes
by dynamic time warping and affinity propagation.” In Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2016 IEEE
International Conference on, pp. 749-753. IEEE, 2016.

-----
