Abstract 
The next generation 3D display like the glass-free flat display and hologram calls for advanced 
spatial light modulation of devices with high density of optical processing efficiency, for which 
the lossless optical modulation with high processing speed and submicron pixilation would be 
appreciated. Traditional spatial light modulators (SLM) for 2D display like the LCD and DMD are 
insufficient for such advanced 3D display. Magneto-optical based SLM can be expected for 
sensitive detection of the output optical polarization rotation faster than ~10-7 s with only a thin 
film structure. Mie scattering based all dielectric metasurface show novelty in lossless 
subwavelength light tailoring with the typical periodicity of the nano structures as small as 
hundreds of nano-meters. Either of them can be expected a good candidate for the development of 
SLM for the future 3D display application. Here we proposed two approaches for solution of the 
idea: the MnBi based magneto-optical SLM (MO-SLM) and liquid crystal (LC) based TiO2 active 
metasurface. Study of fabrication and optics analysis was carried out to verify the performance 
and feasibility of the MO-SLM and active metasurface device for application. 
In this paper, the background and motivation of the research work is given in Chapter 1; the 
literature review about the MO effect and Mie scattering is given in Chapter 2; the fabrication and 
optical response of LC infiltrated TiO2 metasurface is introduced and discussed in Chapter 3 to 7. 
In this paper, the thin layer 60 nm low temperature phase MnBi thin films was successfully 
obtained with a large perpendicular magnetization anisotropy (PMA) of 480 emu/cm3 and a MO 
Kerr rotation (MOKE) as much as 0.5o which is much larger than other material candidates. 
Sample was fabricated by deposition of the interlaced Mn and Bi thin layers as [Mn/Bi]10 with a 
total thickness ratio of Mn/Bi=20/40 nm before a 350 oC thermal annealing for 2 hrs. An interlaced 
structure of [Mn/Bi]x can improve the inter-diffusion of Mn and Bi atoms during the thermal 
annealing thus results in a better MnBi phase formation. However, the sample is apt to be oxidized 
presented by magnetic measurements comparison between the 14-day interval exposure in ambient 
environment. Ta capping layer is more effective than Ru for protection of the MnBi surface 
structure and further the magnetic properties. MO was detected and varies in consistent with the 
PMA depending on the Mn/Bi contents. A TiO2 dielectric layer can be introduced in contact with 
the MnBi to induce a dramatic enhancement (0.86o to 9.5o at 633 nm) based on the numerical 
simulation. However, the large PMA and MOKE can be only received in cost of large coercivity, 
which would hinder the possible application of the MO-SLM for display application. 
In the meantime, an electrically drivable active metasurface was realized by LC infiltration with 
the TiO2 nano cylinder metasurface. A wide range shift in spectra (close to 20 nm) can be obtained 
in a 1.5 um thin layer LC based metasurface driven by a small voltage below 8V and thus receiving 
a dynamic phase control about 1.2 . Strong surface anchoring effect is observed inducing a more 

-----
than 30o deviation of the LC alignment with respect to the preset LC photoalignment and thus the 
optical response. Based on the measurement of optical observation and Raman spectrum, the LC 
alignment is co-affected by the rubbing/photoalignment strength, liquid thickness and the surface 
anchoring energy. Based on the Frank-Oseen model analysis, the stronger surface anchoring effect 
of the nano structure can be confirmed to suppress the rubbing influence and induces an almost 
parallel LC alignment along with the anchoring direction of the nano structure for the gentle 
rubbing strength. The LC alignment can be controllable by either a more accurate define of the 
nano structure arrays’ periodic direction or a harder rubbing strength performed during the 
fabrication. The dynamically tunable metasuface can be expected a candidate for the development 
of the tunable Huygens’ surface device in future. 
 
 

-----
Publication list 
[1] M. Y. Sun, X. W. Xu, X. A. Liang, X. W. Sun* and Y. J. Zheng, Effect of oxidation on 
perpendicular magnetic behavior of MnBi thin films, J. Alloy. Compd. 672 (2016) 59-63. 
[2] M. Y. Sun, X. W. Xu, X. W. Sun, X. A. Liang, V. Valuckas, Y. J. Zheng*, R Paniagua-
Domínguez and A. I. Kuznetsov*, Electrically tunable all dielectric metasurface based on thin 
layer nematic liquid crystal for visible light modulation, ACS Nano. (in review) 
[3] M. Y. Sun, X. W. Xu, X. W. Sun, X. S. Q. Li, A. Liang, R. M. Veeti, Y. J. Zheng*, R Paniagua-
Domínguez and A. I. Kuznetsov*, Nano antennas induced anchoring effect in nematic liquid 
crystal based metasurface. (In draft) 
[4] R. Paniagua-Domínguez, S. Q. Li, X. W. Xu, M. Y. Sun, R. M. Veetil, X. A. Liang and A. I. 
Kuznetsov, Dynamic control at visible wavelengths of all-dielectric metasurfaces embedded 
in liquid-crystals, OPTO, Photonics West 2018 (oral presentation) 
[5] M. Y. Sun, H. J. Wang, Y. J. Zheng* and X. W. Sun*, Electrical modulation of all dielectric 
metamaterial tuned by birefringent liquid crystal, ITQW 2017 (poster presentation) 
[6] M. Y. Sun, H. J. Wang, Y. J. Zheng* and X. W. Sun*, Active all dielectric metamaterial tuned 
by super thin liquid crystal, Photonics@SG 2017 (poster presentation) 
[7] M. Y. Sun and X. W. Sun*, Study of fabrication, magnetization and magneto-optical properties 
of perpendicular anisotropic MnBi thin film, Thin Film 2016 (poster presentation) 
[8] S. Z. Wang, M. Y. Sun, P. Surman, J. S. Yuan and X. W. Sun, Maximizing the 2D Viewing 
Field of a Computational Two-layer Light Field 3D Display, SID Symposium Digest 46 1440 
(2015); 

-----
