Software Defined Networking Approach 
for Efficient Information Dissemination 
in Vehicular Networks  
Abstract 
Vehicular ad-hoc networks (VANET) have emerged as a viable solution for the network related problems in 
intelligent transportation system (ITS). However, with its current architecture, especially with the unavailability 
of global network information, VANET has not been able to fulfill some of the necessities for efficient 
information dissemination and most critically still lacking flexibility and programmability. Recently, software 
defined networking (SDN) has been introduced into the vehicular domain in order to overcome the 
shortcomings in VANET. SDN is capable of handling the dynamic nature of networks with intelligent 
applications while lowering operational costs through simplified hardware and software. Yet, the architectural 
limitations of presented software defined vehicular networks (SDVN), especially the centralization of control 
plane and its placement, have imposed doubts on its usability especially in the midst of stringent delay 
requirement of VANET applications.   
Alternatively, in this thesis, we propose a novel hierarchical distributed controller architecture for SDVN (HD-
SDVN) in which multiple controllers are hierarchically distributed and a layer of control is brought down to the 
Road Side Unit (RSU) level cutting down the southbound communication latency, while still leveraging the 
logically centralized pros such as collective global network view. Further, an optimized placement of controllers 
in several selected RSUs is proposed together with a proactive flow instantiation (FI) to further reduce the 
operational latency of SDVN. Implementation of HD-SDVN and proposed proactive operational mode in NS3 
exhibits latency measurements in tens of milliseconds which is satisfactory to most of the VANET applications.  
The thesis further emphasizes the effect of software defined approach on efficient information dissemination in 
vehicular networks by scrutinizing the link stability in multi-hop data routing. As a middle ground for the 
shortest path approach and most stable path approach in the current literature, we propose an optimization based 
data routing model, which scrutinizes multiple stable enough paths with less travel times, that can deliver a 
given set of packets using SDVN. The problem formulation follows a minimum cost capacitated flow problem, 
embedded with an incremental packet allocation scheme to shift the computational complexity to a realizable 
level for real-time communication. Moreover, a source routing based FI scheme with effective route caching is 
presented to reduce the extent of communication with the control plane while still utilizing the knowledge of the 
controller. We further acknowledge the possible limitations in network information which confine the 
improvement of aforementioned proposals and incorporate both centralized and distributed routing techniques in 
combinations to overcome the black holes in the network. The simulation experiments with realistic mobility 
patterns support the stated claims with enhanced packet reception ratios among competitive latencies and 
routing overheads. 
We finally present a primordial study on cooperative scheduling of diverse vehicular communication channels 
for a better dissemination of data in multi-hop routing scenarios. The system utilizes vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V), 
vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I), and infrastructure-to-vehicle (I2V) channels of dedicated short range 
communication (DSRC), and infrastructure-to-infrastructure (I2I) interface cooperatively to maximize the 
delivery of data packets under delay tolerance and link connectivity regions. The model avoids possible packet 
collisions, multiple simultaneous transmissions, routing loops by means of constraints while scrutinizing the 
wireless nature of links. The problem is formulated as an integer linear programming (ILP) problem and it 
further thrives on the minimization of service delay based on the traffic type as well.  

-----
The proposed SDVN system model and information dissemination schemes highlight the improvement that can 
be brought upon vehicular networks via SDN, which is the core objective of this thesis. This study further 
exhibits, unlike in VANET, how intelligent applications can be easily incorporated to scrutinize diverse 
features/attributes of vehicular networks for an enhanced performance. 
 
 
 

-----
