 
 
ABSTRACT 
This PhD thesis pertains to the investigation, design, and realization of CMOS-based 
GHz digital-to-analog converters (DACs).   The GHz DAC is one of the critical circuit blocks 
in high-speed data communication systems including the emerging cognitive ultra-wideband 
radio, millimeter wave transmitter, unmanned aerial vehicle real-time surveillance system, 
etc. 
Reported state-of-the-art DACs relies heavily on complex digital approaches for 
improved linearity and/or time-interleaving.  However, these DACs undesirably have 
inherent drawbacks such as a high digital switching noise, long (time) latency, and complex 
GHz synchronization.  In view of these, high-speed DACs with innate accuracy (without 
complex digital blocks and digital calibrations) are particularly attractive for some 
applications that require short latency, less hardware overheads, and wider bandwidth analog 
output.  Put simply, the design of the DAC with innate accuracy is extremely difficult as it 
usually involves numerous fine-tuning due to sophisticated design tradeoffs and the degraded 
transistor performance at GHz.    Further, it is extremely challenging to test the GHz DAC 
largely because of the difficulty associated with the generation of high-speed digital input 
patterns.    
To resolve the aforesaid DAC design challenges, we investigate, on the basis of 
fundamental analytical derivations and comprehensive computer simulations, the 
relationships between the critical linearity parameters (e.g., integral nonlinearity (INL), 
spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR), etc.) and the design parameters (e.g., output 
impedance, transistor sizes, etc.).  We subsequently propose a design technique that provides 
accurate estimation of available design headroom for critical parameters and hence reduces 
design iterations and effort.  Further, we propose a novel technique to ease the aforesaid 
design tradeoffs, leading to the optimized DAC designs with innate accuracy.  To facilitate 
the high-speed DAC testing, we also propose a custom built-in digital pattern generator 
(DPG) that capable of generating periodic pattern up to 10GBaud/s for each DAC bit.   
On the basis of the abovementioned design techniques, in this thesis, we present two 
GHz DAC designs.   The first DAC design is a 10GS/s 4-bit current-steering DAC (CS-DAC) 
realized in 65nm CMOS featuring 0.16LSB INL, 0.12LSB DNL, and >23dBc SFDR (up to 
4.53GHz) with 30mW power dissipation.  These high linearity and wide bandwidth attributes 
are achieved primarily by means of our proposed optimization technique based on the 
comprehensive analysis of the relationship between INL and the current-source output 
impedance.   We propose a high-speed deglitcher circuit herein to further improve the 
linearity by lowering the DAC output glitch energy.  To assist the 10GS/s DAC speed, a 
custom built-in digital pattern generator (DPG) is designed to enable the generation up to 
4×10GBaud/s periodic patterns. 
The second DAC design is a 2.4GS/s 8-bit CS-DAC realized in 65nm CMOS 
featuring ±0.097LSB INL, 0.05/-0.15LSB DNL, and >47.8dBc SFDR (up to 1.13GHz) with 
26.4mW power dissipation.  The high linearity attribute is achieved without complex 
calibration/dynamic-element-matching.  In this DAC design, we propose a novel distributed 
biasing scheme.  This scheme offers two attractive attributes.   First, it innately eases a couple 
of critical design tradeoffs, hence leading the simultaneous high linearity and wide 
bandwidth.  Second, it allows efficient compensation of the gradient errors without excessive 
overheads.  To facilitate the DAC tests, the similar DPG design for the first DAC design is 
adopted to generate 8×2.4GBaud/s periodic data patterns.  
In summary, our two DAC designs offer competitive/better performance compared to 
state-of-the-art designs, and our proposed design techniques can be applied to various high-
speed DAC designs.   

-----
