Multicore fibers for sensing applications 
Abstract 
Multicore fibers (MCFs) are optical fibers which have several cores integrated in a common 
cladding. As one type of space-division multiplexing, MCFs have been widely investigated in 
optical communication to improve the data capacity limit. Due to the intrinsic advantages such 
as small size, well defined core separation, improved isothermal behaviour, light weight, 
immunity to electromagnetic interference, MCFs have also attracted extensive interest for 
optical sensing. MCF based sensors can not only be utilized for structural health monitoring, 
but also medical sensing and robot position tracking.  This thesis focuses on investigating and 
fabricating MCF based sensors with high performance by post-processing techniques such as 
inscribing gratings or introducing helical structures into the MCFs. 
In this thesis, we first review the background knowledge of optical fiber gratings, optical 
fiber interferometry and MCFs, as well as the development of MCF based sensors. And then 
we detail the working principles, fabrication methods and experimental results of three sensors 
based on a heterogeneous MCF. 
The first one is a directional bending sensor based on FBGs inscribed in the heterogeneous 
MCF. To date, several types of sensors based on FBGs inscribed in homogeneous MCFs have 
been reported. However, due to the homogeneous properties of the multiple cores, 
simultaneous interrogation of the FBGs in the multiple cores demands high precision and 
cumbersome alignment with, for example, a coupler and a ball lens, or customized and 
complicated fan-out devices. Therefore, to realize an easier interrogation of the FBGs in 
different cores, we propose to inscribe FBGs in heterogeneous MCFs. As the heterogeneous 
MCFs have non-identical cores, FBGs with different resonant wavelengths can be inscribed 
simultaneously into the multiple cores in only one process with the scanned phase mask method. 
The MCF we used has six identical outer cores and a center core with a little lower refractive 
index. Due to the difference in refractive indices between the center core and outer cores, the 
FBGs with obviously different central wavelengths can be measured by only splicing a segment 
of MMF between the MCF and the lead-in SMF. The curvature sensitivity of the FBG in the 
outer core depends on the bending orientation in the form of sine function. The maximum linear 
curvature sensitivity is about 0.128 nm/m-1. The proposed sensor offers advantages of 
flexibility in fabrication, simple interrogation and capability of eliminating the cross sensitivity 
to temperature or externally applied axial strain.  

-----
The second one is a highly sensitive strain sensor based on a helical structure (HS) 
fabricated in the MCF. The MCF was locally twisted into a HS permanently by a CO2 laser 
splicing system and then spliced between two short sections of multimode fibers (MMFs) to 
construct an in-line Mach-Zehnder interferometer. In the region of the HS, the outer cores were 
deformed into spring-like structures while the center core was kept straight. Due to the HS, a 
maximum strain sensitivity as high as −61.8pm/με was experimentally achieved. This is the 
highest sensitivity among interferometer-based strain sensors reported so far, to the best of our 
knowledge.  Moreover, the proposed sensor has the ability to discriminate axial strain and 
temperature, and offers several advantages such as repeatability of fabrication, robust structure 
and compact size, which further benefits its practical sensing applications. 
Based on the MCF with the HS, we also propose and demonstrate a sensor for directional 
torsion and temperature discrimination. By introducing the short HS, not only the fiber circular 
asymmetry was achieved but the multiple interference was enhanced significantly. The 
maximum torsion sensitivity of the proposed sensor reaches −0.118 nm/(rad/m) for the twist 
range from −17.094 rad/m to 15.669 rad/m. Compared with the previously reported torsion 
sensor schemes utilizing micro-machining means, the proposed sensor not only owns the 
capability of the discrimination of directional torsion and temperature but also takes the merits 
of easy fabrication and good mechanical robustness. 
 
Publication list 
Journal Papers Published 
1. H. Zhang et al. Directional torsion and temperature discrimination based on 
multicore fiber with helical structure. Opt. Express 26(1): 544-551(2018). 
2. H. Zhang et al. Highly sensitive strain sensor based on helical structure combined 
with Mach-Zehnder interferometer in multicore fiber. Sci. Rep. 7: 46633 (2017). 
3. H. Zhang et al. Fiber Bragg gratings in heterogeneous multicore fiber for directional 
bending sensing. J. of Opt. 18(8): 085705 (2016). 
4. Z. Wu, P. P. Shum, X. Shao, H. Zhang et al. Temperature-and strain-insensitive 
curvature sensor based on ring-core modes in dual-concentric-core fiber. Opt. 
Lett. 41(2): 380-383(2016). 

-----
5. Z. Wu, H. Zhang et al. Supermode Bragg grating combined Mach-Zehnder 
interferometer for temperature-strain discrimination. Opt. Express 23(26): 33001-
330072(2015). 
6. R. Wang, R. Lin, M. Tang, H. zhang et al. Electrically programmable all-fiber 
structured second order optical temporal differentiator. IEEE Photon. J. 
7(3):7101510(2015).  
7. R. Wang, M. Tang, L. Zhang, H. Zhang, et al. Demonstration of programmable In-
Band OSNR monitoring using LCFBG with commercial thermal printer head. IEEE 
Photon. J. 7(4): 6802008 (2015).  
Journal Paper in preparation 
1. H. Zhang et al. Spatial-division multiplexed helical long period gratings in multicore 
fiber for multiparameter measurement. (in preparation) 
 
Conference Papers 
1. H. Zhang et al. Helical long period grating in multicore fiber for simultaneous 
measurement of torsion and temperature. In CLEO-PR/OECC/PGC 2017. 
2. H. Zhang et al. Directional bending sensor based on spatially arrayed long period gratings 
in multicore fiber. In CLEO-PR/OECC/PGC 2017  
3. Z. Wu, H. Zhang et al. Sensing application based on helical-structured multicore fiber. In 
CLEO-PR/OECC/PGC 2017  
4. Y. Zheng, Z. Wu, H. Zhang et al. Design of Fabry-Perot Refractometer based on a 
simplified hollow-core PCF with a CFBG pair. In CLEO-PR/OECC/PGC 2017  
5. R. Wang, M. Tang, S. Fu, H. Zhang et al. Integrated chiral long period gratings in 
multicore fiber. In CLEO, May 2017, Paper JW2A.64. 
6. H. Zhang et al. Simultaneous measurement of torsion and temperature based on helical 
structure in multicore fiber. In ACP, Nov. 2016, Paper AF3A-4. (OSA Best Student Paper 
Award).  
7. H. Zhang et al. Highly sensitive strain sensor based on helical structure in multicore fiber. 
In CLEO, Jul. 2016, Paper SM2P.3. (IPS Singapore Chapter student travel grant award). 
8. H. Zhang et al. Simultaneous measurement of temperature and curvature with multicore 
fiber based Mach-Zehnder interferometer and fiber Bragg grating, in PGC, Jun. 2015. 
9. Z. Wu, X. Shao, P. P. Shum, H. Zhang et al. Grating effect in lanthanum aluminum silicate 
glass fiber，In CLEO, May 2015. Paper SM3L.2 

-----
10. Z. Wu, N. Zhang, P. P. Shum, X. Shao, H. Zhang et al. Curvature sensor based on long-
period grating in dual concentric core fiber, In CLEO, May 2015, Paper ATu1M.5 
 

-----
