A General Probabilistic Framework of 3D Map Fusion
for Collaborative Robots
YUE YUFENG
School of Electrical & Electronic Engineering
A thesis submitted to the Nanyang Technological University
in fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy
2018

-----
2
Abstract
Utilizing a group of robots for environmental mapping, inspection or surveillance tasks
have found significant attention over the last years due to the inherent advantages of ro-
bustness and efficiency. Due to limited sensing capabilities and computational power,
each robot only has partial information of the surroundings. To main a comprehensive of
the environment under limited communication bandwidth, fusing local 3D maps gener-
ated by individual robots to a globally consistent map is a critical challenge in multi-robot
mapping missions. Most of the existing approaches are subject to certain limitations such
as heterogeneous sensors, accurate matching, probabilistic merging, and inconsistency
detection. This thesis proposes a systematic multi-robot mapping framework by taking
those challenges into account.
First of all, the thesis proposes 3D volumetric map fusion algorithm Occupancy iterative
closet point (OICP) by extending the well known iterative closest point (ICP) algorithm.
The OICP algorithm combines occupancy probability in conjunction with surface infor-
mation to register point cloud extracted from 3D occupancy probabilistic map, which
tends to match voxels with similar occupancy probability. In addition, an environment
measurement model is applied to evaluate the relative transformation and map dissimilar-
ities are integrated using relative entropy filter. The efficiency of the proposed algorithm is
evaluated using maps generated from both simulated and real environments and is shown
to generate more consistent global maps.
Secondly, a hierarchical probabilistic fusion framework for matching and merging of 3D
NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
SINGAPORE

-----
3
occupancy maps is studied. Existing approaches have relied on point set registration based
algorithms for map matching. However, they have not provided a comprehensive analy-
sis of the integrated map fusion system on map uncertainty modeling, probabilistic map
matching, transformation evaluation and accurate map merging. In addition, high level
geometry features should be incorporated if available. The thesis addresses these issues
by proposing a novel hierarchical probabilistic map fusion framework for 3D occupancy
grid maps. Before the fusion of maps, the map features and their uncertainties are explic-
itly modeled and integrated. For map matching, a two-level Probabilistic Map Matching
(PMM) algorithm is developed to include high-level structural and low-level voxel fea-
tures. The relative transformation output from PMM algorithm is evaluated based on the
Mahalanobis distance and the relative entropy filter is used to integrate the map dissimi-
larities. The results verify the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed 3D occupancy map
fusion approach, and exhibit the improved convergence in these scenarios.
Finally, a distributed probabilistic framework for multi-robot mapping is proposed. There
have been few works on real-time 3D map fusion with different map data type, espe-
cially merging the sparse map with the dense map. In the thesis, a general probabilistic
framework is proposed to address the integrated map fusion problem, which is indepen-
dent of sensor types and SLAM algorithms. The paper formulates the joint probability
of the global map and the set of relative transformations between the local maps. In par-
ticular, we show that a Bayes rule based model separates the problem into an individual
robot map matching problem and a multi-robot map merging problem. This makes the
problem solvable for differing sensor types on the different platforms. The multiple data
association method between those different types of maps provides deep insights into
matching maps with the different physical and geometrical properties. The thesis also
provides a distributed communication strategy to share map information among robots.
The proposed approach is evaluated in real-time experiments in various environments
with heterogeneous sensors, which shows its robustness and generality in 3D map fusion
for multi-robot mapping missions.
NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
SINGAPORE

-----
4
AUTHOR’S PUBLICATIONS
Author’s Publications
Journal Papers:
1. Yufeng Yue, Chule Yang, P. G. C. N. Senarathne, and Danwei Wang, ”A Gen-
eral Probabilistic Framework for Dynamic Multi-Robot 3-D Map Fusion”, IEEE
Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, 2018, (Under Review)
2. Yufeng Yue, P.G.C.N. Senarathne, Chule Yang, Jun Zhang, Mingxing Wen, and
Danwei Wang, ”Hierarchical Probabilistic Fusion Framework for Matching and
Merging of 3D Occupancy Maps” , IEEE Sensor Journal, 2018, (Under Review)
3. Yuanzhe Wang, Mao Shan, Yufeng Yue, and Danwei Wang, ”Flexible Leader-
Follower Formation Analysis and Tracking Control of Multiple Nonholonomic Mo-
bile Robots Using Relative Pose Measurements”, IEEE Transactions on Control
Systems Technology, 2018, (Under Review)
4. Chule Yang, Yufeng Yue, and Danwei Wang, ”Probabilistic Reasoning for Unique
Role Recognition Based on the Fusion of Semantic-Interaction and Spatio-Temporal
Features”, IEEE Transactions On Multimedia, 2017, (Under Review)
5. Chule Yang, Danwei Wang, Yijie Zeng, Yufeng Yue, Prarinya Siritanawan , and
”Multimodal Information Fusion for Human-Oriented Context Awareness Using
Mobile Robot”, Information Fusion, 2017, (Under Review)
NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
SINGAPORE

-----
AUTHOR’S PUBLICATIONS
5
Conference Papers:
1. Yufeng Yue, P.G.C.N. Senarathne, Chule Yang , Jun Zhang, Mingxing Wen and
Danwei Wang, ”Probabilistic Fusion Framework for Collaborative Robots 3D Map-
ping”, 21st International Conference on Information Fusion, Cambridge, 2018.
(accepted)
2. Yufeng Yue, Chule Yang , P.G.C.N. Senarathne, Jun Zhang, Mingxing Wen and
Danwei Wang, ”Online Collaborative 3D Mapping in Forest Environment”, IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) workshop, Brisbane,
2018.
3. Yufeng Yue, D. Wang, P. G. C. N. Senarathne and C.Yang, ” A General Framework
for Distributed Multi-Robot 3-D Map Fusion,” IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA) workshop, Singapore, 2017.
4. Yufeng Yue, D. Wang, P. G. C. N. Senarathne and C.Yang, ” Robust Submap-Based
Probabilistic Inconsistency Detection for Multi-Robot Mapping,” 2017 European
Conference on Mobile Robotics (ECMR), Paris, 2017.
5. C Yang, Y Zeng, Yufeng Yue, J Zhang, DW Wang, Knowledge-Based Role Recog-
nition by Using Human-Object Interaction and Spatio-Temporal Analysis, 2017
IEEE Conference on Robotics and Biomimetics (ROBIO), Macau, 2017. Final List
of Best Student Paper Award
6. Yufeng Yue, D. Wang, P. G. C. N. Senarathne and D. Moratuwage, ”A hybrid
probabilistic and point set registration approach for fusion of 3D occupancy grid
maps,” 2016 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics
(SMC), Budapest, 2016.
NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
SINGAPORE

-----
