Title: Development of Handheld Probe for 
Optoacoustic Imaging and Sensing: Algorithm and 
System 
 
Abstract: Optoacoustic technique, also known as photoacoustic technique, is a 
powerful tool to “listen the sound of light” in physiological environment. 
Combining the rich optical-absorption contrast and high acoustic-resolution in a 
long penetration depth, optoacoustic imaging, as a multi-wave imaging 
modality, reveals a wide range of superiorities compared to other single-wave 
imaging modalities (e.g., optical coherence tomography, magnetic resonance 
imaging, and ultrasonography). In recent decades, optoacoustic technique 
witnessed tremendous growth in terms of mechanism exploration, system 
development, reconstructive algorithm, imaging and sensing applications, etc. 
 As one of the frontiers of optoacoustic research, development of portable, 
handheld, and wearable optoacoustic system attracts ever-increasing attention in 
these years. In general, in pursuit of the system miniaturization, efforts could be 
exerted mainly on three aspects—optical illumination method, acoustic 
detection method, and backend electronics. This Ph.D. dissertation will 
comprehensively investigate the handheld design in these three aspects and 
present a set of developed handheld optoacoustic imagers, from the prospect of 
optoacoustic system design, optoacoustic probe design and development of fast 
image reconstructive method.  
After a brief overview of the optoacoustic technique, this dissertation sets 
out with the fundamental mechanism of the optoacoustic generation (section 
2.1). In section 2.2, several mainstream implementations of optoacoustic system 
are introduced. In section 2.3, optoacoustic imaging effect using different 
reconstructive methods are presented. In parallel, analogue reconstruction 
methods in ultrasonography are also compared and summarized. 
In the third chapter of the dissertation, several developed handheld 
optoacoustic imaging and sensing system are introduced. In section 3.1, an all-
in-one handheld optoacoustic imager is proposed, in which all the optical and 
acoustic components are integrated into a compact handheld probe. In section 

-----
3.2, separating the bulky laser illumination and handheld optoacoustic probe, 
the miniaturized handheld optoacoustic imager, as the second generation, is 
presented. In section 3.3, employing modulated continuous wave laser 
illumination, a portable optoacoustic temperature sensing device is developed. 
In section 3.4, based on the previous continuous wave illumination design, a 
wearable optoacoustic imager is further developed, as the third generation. 
In the fourth chapter of the dissertation, affiliated with the handheld 
volumetric imaging system, a dedicated fast reconstructive algorithm is 
developed. In section 4.1, GPU accelerated time domain 2D synthetic aperture 
focusing reconstructive method are proposed. In section 4.2, fitting the stratified 
acoustic environment in the handheld probe, a dedicated fast reconstruction 
algorithm based on the fast-phase migration (PSM) method is developed. 
In summary, with the aim of the clinical translation of optoacoustic 
technique, this Ph.D. dissertation investigates the development of handheld 
optoacoustic technique with portable imaging system, compact handheld probe, 
and fast frame rate. This dissertation highlights the technological and scientific 
potential of the 3D optoacoustic imaging entering the new field of portability 
and handheld operation. 
 

-----
