Abstract
The high dynamic range imaging (HDR) techniques can provide excellent visual ex-
perience which is comparable to the human visual system, thus it is supposed to be 
the future of imaging techniques. However, because of the relative slow pavement in 
development and deployment of HDR display technology, most consumers, who are 
only equipped with conventional low dynamic range (LDR) displays, cannot benefit 
from the new imaging technology because the HDR images are not directly viewable 
on LDR displays. Backward-compatible solutions are needed so that LDR consumers 
can gradually accept and upgrade legacy LDR imaging techniques to HDR ones.
In this thesis, we provide three backward-compatible solutions in the acquisition, dis-
play and compression stages of the high dynamic range imaging pipeline.
In the
acquisition stage, we propose a detail-enhanced exposure fusion algorithm to directly
acquire an HDR-like LDR image by merging a bracket of differently exposed LDR im-
ages. The acquired LDR image, which preserves information in brightest and darkest
regions as well as the find-details of the scene, can provide superior HDR-like visual
experience without generating the HDR images. In the display stage, we propose
an efficient saliency-aware tone mapping operator to reproduce the HDR image on
conventional LDR displays. Our method takes the overall brightness, contrast and
details preservation and visual attention into consideration.
We manage to view

-----
HDR images on LDR displays without degrading its visual quality too much. In the
compression stage, we propose an two-layer local inverse tone mapping algorithm to
estimate an HDR image from its locally tone-mapped version. And we successfully
adopt it in HDR image scalable coding to improve the coding efficiency for efficient
backward-compatible distribution of HDR images.
In conclusion, our backward-compatible solutions enable LDR consumers to enjoy
the superior visual experience provided by the HDR imaging techniques. Our work
should be helpful for transition from LDR imaging techniques to HDR ones.

-----
