Abstract 
As the demand for secure, clean and sustainable energy increases, extensive research 
attention has been directed to photovoltaics (PVs) owing to its inexhaustibility, abundance 
and wide availability. Despite the great efforts devoted, for large scale implementation, 
price reduction of solar cells is still the main issue to enable the solar cells to be fully 
cost-competitive with traditional energy sources. On one hand, organic PVs have provided 
a low cost solution. On the other hand, semiconductor nanowire (NW) arrays open a new 
pathway to greatly reduce material consumption while maintaining or even improving 
device performance. To further lower the cost and improve energy conversion efficiency, 
hybrid solar cells (HSCs) based on III-V and organic materials have emerged as promising 
candidates to combine the advantages of inorganic materials and the low cost and 
flexibility provided by organic materials. In this work, at the first stage, an effective and 
efficient design is provided to guide the geometrical dimensions and topology for NW 
arrays to achieve maximal light harvesting regardless of the material, single or multiple 
diameters of NWs. Compared with time-consuming simulations, the proposed method 
maintains a low tolerance of below 2.2%. Next, an opto-electrical model is built to fully 
evaluate the performance of the HSCs elaborating the photo-generated excitons 
dissociation, transportation and collection within the hybrid active layer. Validation with 
published experimental results has proved the effectiveness of our theoretical work. Thirdly, 
highly efficient core-shell inorganic-inorganic HSCs are designed and experimentally 
fabricated combining nanospheres lithography, dry etching and PV fabrication techniques. 
Hexagonal closely packed polystyrene nanospheres of various diameters are achieved at 
centimeter scale. Plasma etching is accompanied to tune the diameter and inter-sphere 
spacing among adjacent nanospheres. Using these nanospheres as etching masks, ordered 
NWs arrays are obtained by optimizing various etching parameters including the flow rates 
of chlorine, boron trichloride, trifluoromethane, and the radio frequency power etc.. 
Inorganic core/organic shells are optimized serving as hybrid active layer. Finally HSCs are 
fabricated to fully unravel the role of inorganic NWs effect on the performance of device.  

-----
