Title: Colloidal semiconductor nanocrystals for efficiency: Synthesis, 
characterization and device applications 
Abstract: 
Colloidal semiconductor nanocrystals (for example, colloidal quantum dots (CQDs), colloidal 
nanoplatelets (NPLs)) are promising materials for myriad applications like color conversion in 
displays, lighting and biological imaging etc. They offer the advantages of tuning their optical 
and electronic properties with size, shape and controlling surface properties. The unique 
advantages lie in their scalability for displays and large area lighting. They can be either 
optically driven or electrically driven. Recently CQDs have been commercially applied as 
color converters for displays via optical excitation, due to their low cost and scalable 
synthesis and better energy efficiency. To effectively use these materials for efficient future 
lighting and other optoelectronic applications require the understanding of the material 
aspects which contribute to high efficiency of emission as light sources. NPLs which are 
recently introduced class of nanocrystals, offer exceptionally narrow PL spectral bandwidths. 
NPLs provide an opportunity to develop next generation of nano-emitters for optoelectronic 
applications by developing their quantum efficiency (QE) of emission while also developing 
our understanding of nanocrystal material aspects for efficiency. This work contributes to 
increasing the QE of NPLs by developing optimal surface passivation techniques with hetero-
structure crown/shell growth and ligand passivation. It achieves the enhancement of QE in 
not only organic solvent systems but also pioneers their rendering into aqueous system with 
high QE which was hitherto unexplored in the research field. The development of aqueous 
solution of high QE NPLs opens up a possibility of myriad new applications in biological and 
optoelectronics fields, some of which are explored in this work. Along with an enhanced 
understanding of material aspects of efficiency there is a need to further understand the 
behaviour of the material during device operations. The development of quantum dot light 
emitting diodes (QLEDs) for lighting and displays has recently reached the levels of almost 
100% internal QEs. Further research work is focussed on improving their stability and 
longevity maintaining the high efficiency during operation. This work in also explores the 
material aspects of efficiency under device operation by studying exciton decay dynamics of 
CQDs inside a QLED under operation. The results show the major efficiency quenching 
factors at play during device operation. This work adds to the valuable literature on not only  
providing synthesis techniques to develop efficient nanocrystals in organic and aqueous 
solutions as well as focusses on understanding the material behaviour in active device 
operating conditions which would contribute to future development of myriad applications 
in optoelectronic and other fields.  

-----
