Study of Energy Transfer from Zinc Oxide Nanocrystals to Europium and 
Terbium Ions for the Development of Red, Green and White Light 
Emitting Thin-Films 
Lanthanide rare-earth (RE) ions are important materials which have been extensively studied for their 
applications in lighting and display technologies. RE ions, especially Europium (III) ions and Terbium (III) 
have been used as phosphors to create red and green light emitting devices, respectively. Eu3+ ions give 
pure sharp red emission at 614 nm and Tb3+ ions give pure sharp green emission at 545 nm upon 
excitation. These are ideal for creating solid state lighting devices. However, these RE ions have their 
limitations, which is the case with any material used in engineering devices. Even though RE ions can be 
directly excited optically for photoluminescence emission, the direct excitations of the RE ions have 
some disadvantages. For instance, a specific excitation wavelength is required to excite a specific type 
of RE ion (e.g. 392 nm excitation wavelength is preferred to excite the Eu3+ ions while 348 nm is 
preferred to excite the Tb3+ ions). This makes excitation difficult in samples with more than one type of 
RE ions (e.g. to produce white light emitting sample with Eu3+ and Tb3+ ions) as different wavelengths 
are required to excite different types of RE ions. Furthermore, the RE ions have low absorption cross-
section.  
One way to overcome these difficulties is to use semiconductor nanocrystals as sensitizers to excite the 
RE ions. Semiconductor nanocrystals like ZnO, Si, CdSe, etc. have higher absorption cross-section, which 
can be easily excited compared to the RE ions. These excited nanocrystals can then transfer the energy 
to RE ions, which in turn emit light through radiative de-excitation. Moreover, different RE ions can be 
excited using a single type of semiconductor nanocrystals, which can be excited using any wavelength 
above the optical band gap of the semiconductor. Thus, using semiconductor nanocrystals as 
sensitizers, various RE ions can be excited using a single excitation wavelength. In this regard, zinc oxide 
nanocrystals (ZnO-nc) are one of the widely studied sensitizers because they can excite a wide variety 
of RE ions like Eu3+, Tb3+, Ce3+, Er3+, etc.. ZnO-nc is an important material which has attracted a lot of 
attention due to its inherent and intrinsic properties like size dependent luminescent properties, large 
absorption cross-sections and broad excitation spectra. The 3.37 eV wide band gap of ZnO with a large 
exciton binding energy of 60 meV results in the emission of light in the blue and ultraviolet (UV) region 
of the electromagnetic spectrum which excite the RE ions. In this work we specifically study the energy 
transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions and ZnO-nc to Tb3+ ions. 
Although, various studies show energy transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions and ZnO-nc to Tb3+ ions, a 
complete understanding of the energy transfer is lacking and it needs to be investigated, which is the 
main focus of this work. For instance, a comprehensive understanding of the energy transfer 
mechanism and the contribution of energy transfer from the various ZnO-nc emissions has not been 
reported. Secondly, there have been almost no studies to understand the decay dynamics of the 
various ZnO-nc emission centers and their effect on the efficiency of energy transfer mechanism from 
ZnO-nc to RE ions. Moreover, the nature of energy transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions based on the study 
of interaction distance between ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions has also not been investigated. The interaction 
distance between ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions is an important parameter that can greatly affect the energy 
transfer efficiency from the ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions. Finally, understanding the nature of energy transfer 
between ZnO-nc to both Eu3+ and Tb3+ ions combined in a single layer of thin film sample has also not 
been reported. This will help in the development of energy efficient white light emitting devices, by 
using a single excitation wavelength. Thus, in this work we investigate the above mentioned areas of 
research by studying the system of ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions and Tb3+ ions. This will help in the 
development of energy efficient devices using semiconductor nanocrystals as sensitizers to excite RE 
ions which have wide ranging application in lasers, optical amplifiers, lighting and display technologies. 

-----
The low cost sol-gel technique was used in this work to develop thin film samples of ZnO-nc embedded 
in SiO2 matrix co-doped with RE ions like Eu3+ and Tb3+. The sol-gel technique was used as it has the 
advantage of excellent material stoichiometry, low-cost raw material and equipment, and the flexibility 
of controlling the material composition compared to other thin film preparation methods. The material 
characterisation was done by studying the photoluminescence emission, photoluminescence excitation 
and time-resolved photoluminescence emission from the thin film sample. 
As mentioned above, this work studies the energy transfer contribution and mechanism of energy 
transfer from ZnO-nc to RE ions like Eu3+ and Tb3+ along with the factors affecting the energy transfer 
process, with the aim of developing energy efficient red, green and white light emitting thin-films. The 
study begins by investigating the efficient energy transfer occurring between ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions 
embedded in SiO2. A strong red emission was observed at 614 nm when the ZnO-nc were excited using 
a continuous optical excitation at 325 nm. This emission is due to the radiative 5D0  7F2 de-excitation 
of the Eu3+ ions and has been conclusively shown to be due to the energy transfer from the excited 
ZnO-nc to the Eu3+ ions. The photoluminescence excitation (PLE) spectra are also examined to confirm 
the efficient energy transfer from ZnO-nc to the Eu3+ ions. The PLE spectra show that the emission from 
the Eu3+ ions is much higher when excited through energy transfer  from ZnO-nc as opposed to the 
direct excitation of Eu3+ ions. Furthermore, the various emission centers of excited ZnO-nc and their 
contribution to the energy transfer to Eu3+ ions has also been studied. The excitonic emission and Zn 
defect emission centres of ZnO-nc is shown to have the highest contribution to the energy transfer 
from ZnO-nc to the Eu3+ ions. While the oxygen defect emission centers of ZnO-nc have low energy 
transfer contributions but high energy loss due to the presence of Eu3+ ions induced defect centers in 
the sample. The optimum fabrication process for maximum red emission at 614 nm from the samples is 
also reported, where a strong dependence on the annealing temperature and the Eu3+ concentration in 
the sample is observed. The maximum red emission is observed with 12 mol% Eu3+ sample annealed at 
450oC [1].  
The energy transfer from ZnO-nc to Tb3+ ions is also studied in a similar manner. It is clearly 
demonstrated that the energy transfer from ZnO-nc results in sharp green emission from Tb3+ ions due 
to radiative 5D4→7F5 transition of Tb3+ ions. The concentration of Tb3+ ion is optimised in this study to 
maximize the green emission from the Tb3+
 ions and 12 mol% was found to be the optimum 
concentration of the Tb3+, which is similar to Eu3+ ions. Moreover, the energy transfer contribution of 
the various ZnO-nc emission centres to Tb3+ ions is also analysed and it was found that the ZnO-nc The 
other ZnO-nc emission centers have low energy transfer contributions but high energy loss due to the 
presence of Tb3+ ions induced defect centers in the sample [2]. 
The author also analysed the time resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) measurements from the samples 
to understand the contribution of energy transfer from the various ZnO-nc emission centers to Eu3+ 
ions. The decay time obtained from the TRPL measurements were used to calculate the energy transfer 
efficiencies from the ZnO-nc emission centers and these results were compared with the energy 
transfer efficiencies calculated from steady state photoluminescence emission results. The results in 
this study confirm the results from the photoluminescence emission study of the sample, that the high 
transfer efficiencies from the excitonic and Zn defect emission centers is mostly due to the energy 
transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions which results in the radiative emission from the Eu3+ ions at 614 nm. 
While the energy transfer from the oxygen defect emissions is most probably due to the energy transfer 
from ZnO-nc to the new defects created due to the incorporation of the Eu3+ ions [3]. 
The author also studied the effect of average shortest interaction distance between the ZnO-nc and 
Eu3+ ions and between two Eu3+ ions in the energy transfer process between ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions 
embedded in SiO2 matrix. A detailed model to calculate the two interaction distances based on the ratio 

-----
of Zn, Si and Eu3+ ions in the samples and using the density and molecular mass of ZnO and SiO2 was 
derived. Based on these calculations together with the photoluminescence emission from the samples, 
it is clearly shown that the energy transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions is higher in samples with shorter 
distance between ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions. The maximum red emission at 614 nm due to the efficient 
energy transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ was found in the sample with 5.11 nm distance between the ZnO-
nc and Eu3+ ions. However, the red emission from the Eu3+ ions does not increase as the distance 
between ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions is reduced below 5.11 nm by the increasing Eu3+ concentration. This is 
due to Eu3+ ion concentration quenching effect, where the distances between the Eu3+ ions become 
shorter than 0.57 nm resulting in migration of energy between the Eu3+ ions which is non-radiatively 
dissipated. It is also shown that the energy transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions occurs mostly due to 
radiative energy transfer process when the interaction distance between the ZnO-nc and Eu3+ ions is  
6.53 nm or greater [4]. 
Finally, thin film samples of ZnO-nc co-doped with both Eu3+ ions and Tb3+ ions were also fabricated with 
the objective of creating a white light emitting sample. This was achieved by analysing the 
photoluminescence emission intensity from twenty four different thin film samples of ZnO-nc in SiO2 
with varying concentrations of Eu3+ and Tb3+ ions which were then used to obtain a parametric equation 
for the emission intensity of the thin film samples as function of Eu3+ ions and Tb3+ ions concentration. 
The parametric emission intensity equation was subsequently used to predict the concentration of Eu3+ 
ions and Tb3+ ions which gives white light emission according to the CIE xyz chromaticity values. Finally, 
the white light emitting sample was also fabricated using the sol-gel process to experimentally confirm 
the emission of white light. Thus, in this sample white light emission was achieved using a using a single 
excitation wavelength which excites the ZnO-nc and the ZnO-nc in turn excites the Eu3+ and Tb3+ ions 
through the energy transfer [5].  
The results from these works are important and can help in the development of future proficient red, 
green and white luminescent solid state devices based on a low-cost sol-gel technique. Extending these 
key analyses to systems with other rare earth elements will also help in making efficient light sources 
for various applications in photonics. 
Publication List 
[1] 
V. Mangalam, K. Pita, and C. Couteau, "Study of energy transfer mechanism from ZnO 
nanocrystals to Eu3+ ions," Nanoscale Research Letters, journal article vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1-9, 
2016. 
[2] 
V. Mangalam and K. Pita, "Energy transfer from ZnO nanocrystals to Terbium (3+) ions: A 
spectral overlap study," presented at the 2016 IEEE Photonics Conference (IPC), Hawaii USA, 2-
6 Oct. 2016, 2016.  
[3] 
V. Mangalam and K. Pita, "Energy Transfer Efficiency from ZnO-Nanocrystals to Eu3+ Ions 
Embedded in SiO2 Film for Emission at 614 nm," Materials, vol. 10, no. 8, p. 930, 2017. 
[4] 
V. Mangalam and K. Pita, "Effect of the interaction distance on 614 nm red emission from Eu3+ 
ions due to the energy transfer from ZnO-nc to Eu3+ ions," Optical Materials Express, vol. 8, no. 
10, pp. 3115-3132, 2018/10/01 2018. 
[5] 
V. Mangalam and K. Pita, "White light Emission from Thin-Film Samples of ZnO Nanocrystals co-
doped with Eu3+ and Tb3+ ions in SiO2 matrix," 2018. [Ready for Submission to a reputable 
Journal] 

-----
