Name: Wu Keyu 
Matric NO.: G1601111F 
Thesis Title: Learn to Navigate Through Deep Learning and Deep Reinforcement Learning 
Abstract 
It is crucial for robots to navigate autonomously in complex environments safely and efficiently. 
This thesis is to deal with the autonomous navigation problems of mobile robots through deep 
learning and deep reinforcement learning. It presents four main parts, including a deep 
learning-based path planning algorithm, a deep learning-based online path planning algorithm, 
a deep reinforcement learning-based autonomous steering method, and a deep reinforcement 
learning-based autonomous navigation method. 
Firstly, path planning has been extensively studied for decades since it plays a significant role 
in autonomous navigation. However, the computational time of most existing methods depend 
on the scale and complexity of environment, which leads to the compromise between time 
efficiency and path quality. To tackle this challenge, deep neural network-based planning 
methods have been actively explored. However, despite the success of deep learning-based 2D 
planner, 3D path planning, which is a significant primitive for quite a few autonomous robots, 
is rarely handled by deep neural networks. To address this challenge, a novel end-to-end neural 
network is proposed to realize 3D path planning. By embedding the action decomposition and 
composition concept, the proposed network is capable to predict 3D actions merely through 
2D convolutional neural networks. Besides, the proposed network exhibits high generalization 
capability and its computational time for each action prediction is almost independent of 
environmental scale and complexity. 
Besides, a novel end-to-end deep neural network architecture has also been proposed to tackle 
the problem of online 3D path planning in completely unknown cluttered environments. 
Similarly, it also accomplishes a 3D path planning task via considering multiple value iteration 
updates approximated by recurrent 2D convolutional neural networks. In addition, a path 
planning framework has also been developed to better pledge the efficacy and efficiency of the 
planner through switching among multiple networks that consider different environmental 
ranges. Meanwhile, the line-of-sight checks are also performed to further optimize the 
predicted paths. Without any prior knowledge of the environment, the proposed deep learning-
based online planner is competent to generate near-optimal paths while its computational time 
and effectiveness are independent of environmental conditions. 
Compared to dealing with the path planning problem separately, it is more superior to achieve 
autonomous navigation via mapping raw sensor data to control commands directly. In addition, 
it is also more desirable to learn from experiences automatically and enhance the generalization 
capability to cope with unseen circumstances. Therefore, an end-to-end deep reinforcement 
learning algorithm is proposed to improve the performance of autonomous steering in complex 
environments. As a new variant of Deep Q-Network, the proposed model is capable of deriving 
steering commands directly and efficiently from raw depth images by embedding a branching 
noisy dueling architecture. Besides, a new action selection strategy is also introduced to achieve 
motion filtering by taking the consistency in angular velocity into account. Moreover, the 
training framework is also meticulously designed to improve the learning efficiency and 
effectiveness. It is worth noting that the developed model is readily transferable from simple 

-----
virtual training scenarios to various complicated real-world deployment without any fine-
tuning. 
In addition to autonomous steering, a deep reinforcement learning based autonomous 
navigation method is also proposed. By deriving control commands directly from raw depth 
images, the developed system is capable to avoid bumping into obstacles, while at the 
meantime, pursuing to reach the goal positions. Specifically, a dual soft actor-critic method is 
proposed which trains two networks at the same time. One of the networks is used to derive 
the desired policy while the other one is adopted to improve the extraction of feature 
representations from the raw depth inputs. Besides, a joint training framework is also developed 
by taking advantage of the off-policy nature so as to improve both training effectiveness and 
efficiency. 
 
Journal Publications 
[1] Keyu Wu, Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Shenghai Yuan, Han Wang, "Learn to steer through deep 
reinforcement learning", Sensors 18.11 (2018): 3650. 
[2] Keyu Wu, Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Shenghai Yuan, Han Wang, "TDPP-Net: Achieving Three-
Dimensional Path Planning via a Deep Neural Network Architecture", Neurocomputing (In Minor 
Revision), 2019. 
[3] Keyu Wu, Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Shenghai Yuan, Han Wang, "OTDPP-Net: Achieving Deep 
Neural Network based Real-Time 3D Path Planning in Completely Unknown Cluttered Environments", 
International Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics (Under Review), 2019. 
[4] Keyu Wu, Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Shenghai Yuan, Han Wang, "BND*-DDQN: Learn to Steer 
Autonomously through Deep Reinforcement Learning", IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and 
Developmental Systems (In Major Revision), 2019. 
[5] Keyu Wu, Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Shenghai Yuan, Han Wang, "Learn to Navigate 
Autonomously through Deep Reinforcement Learning", In Preparation, 2019. 
[6] Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Keyu Wu, Shenghai Yuan, and Han Wang, "From Local Understanding 
to Global Regression in Monocular Visual Odometry", International Journal of Pattern Recognition and 
Artificial Intelligence, 2019 
[7] Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Keyu Wu, Shenghai Yuan, and Han Wang, "DeepDSAIR: Deep 6-DOF 
Camera Relocalization using Deblurred Semantic-Aware Image Representation for Large-Scale 
Outdoor Environments", Image and Vision Computing (Under Review), 2019. 
[8] Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Han Wang, Keyu Wu, and Shenghai Yuan, "AbolDeepIO: A Novel 
Deep Inertial Odometry Network for Autonomous Vehicles", IEEE Transactions on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems (Accepted), 2019. 
 
Conference Publications 
[9] Keyu Wu, Tao Xi, and Han Wang. "Real-time three-dimensional smooth path planning for 
unmanned aerial vehicles in completely unknown cluttered environments", In Region 10 Conference 
(TENCON), IEEE, 2017. 

-----
[10] Keyu Wu, Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Shenghai Yuan, Han Wang, "Depth-based Obstacle 
Avoidance through Deep Reinforcement Learning", In International Conference on Mechatronics and 
Robotics Engineering (ICMRE), ACM, 2019. 
[11] Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Keyu Wu, Shenghai Yuan, and Han Wang, "A New Approach to Train 
Convolutional Neural Networks for Real-Time 6-DOF Camera Relocalization", In IEEE 14th 
International Conference on Control and Automation (ICCA), IEEE, 2018. 
[12] Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Keyu Wu, Shenghai Yuan, and Han Wang, "A New Approach to Train 
Convolutional Neural Networks for Monocular Visual Odometry", In International Conference on 
Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence (ICPRAI), 2018 
[13] Mahdi Abolfazli Esfahani, Keyu Wu, Shenghai Yuan, and Han Wang, "Towards Utilizing Deep 
Uncertainty in Traditional SLAM", In IEEE 15th International Conference on Control and Automation 
(ICCA), IEEE, 2019 
[14] Han Wang, Shenghai Yuan, and Keyu Wu, "Heterogeneous Stereo: A Human Vision Inspired 
Method for General Robotics Sensing", In Region 10 Conference (TENCON), IEEE, 2017. 
 

-----
