Candidate Name: 
ZHANG YICHENG (G1303525G) 
 
Thesis title: 
Distributed Algorithm for Solving Large Resource Allocation Problems 
 
Abstract:  
Resource allocation problems happen everywhere in our daily lives. Some quick examples like the power 
scheduling problems, the traffic management problems, the time-slot arrangement problems, the 
communication server allocation problems and the cloud computing scheduling problems are all resource 
allocation problems. Resources in these problems could be continuous, e.g., the gas, water, electrical 
power, or discrete, e.g., the manpower, the equipment. The objectives could be to maximize the 
performance indices, to minimize the cost or to meet some user oriented performance requirements, e.g., 
the Quality of Service (QoS) involved in communication systems. 
Several major technical obstacles appear when moving toward solving resource allocation problems 
efficiently. Firstly, the constraints involved in resource allocation problems are complex, which are hard 
to be modeled. Secondly, the numbers of decision variables and constraints are huge, which may lead to 
extremely high computational complexity for solving these large-scale optimization problems. Thirdly, the 
nature of resources involved in these problems could be either continuous or discrete and the 
computational benefits from the convexity may not be able to achieve. 
To overcome these difficulties, this report proposes (1) a general model of resource allocation problems; 
(2) a distributed computation structure to reduce the computational complexity; (3) algorithms for solving 
large resource allocation problems; and (4) examples on various systems with large resource allocation 
problems. Simulation results in both power systems and traffic systems show that the proposed 
distributed computational architecture with heuristic algorithms can achieve good performance whilst 
reduce the computation complexity. 
In this thesis, we first give a brief introduction about the resource allocation problems, including the 
concepts, the constraint sets, decision variables and objectives. Then, a review on the methodologies for 
solving large resource allocation problems is presented and both centralized and distributed 
methodologies are included in this review. Then, a distributed computation structure is proposed and 
some algorithms for solving the large resource allocation problems are described based on this structure. 
Some case studies from the resource allocation problems involved in electrical power systems, microgrids 
and transportation systems are analyzed in this thesis and the simulation results show the effectiveness 
and efficiency of the proposed computation structure and algorithms on solving these problems. The 
conclusions are drawn in the last chapter and some possible further works are listed. 
 
 

-----
Publication list: 
Journal Papers 
1. Y. Zhang, R. Su, Q. Li, C. G. Cassandras and L. Xie. Distributed flight routing and scheduling in air 
traffic flow management. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 18(10), 2681-
2692, 2017. 
2. Y. Zhang, R. Su, G. G. N. Sandamali and C. G. Cassandras. A Hierarchical Approach for Air Traffic 
Routing and Scheduling. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. Under review. 
3. Y. Zhang, R. Su, Y. Zhang and C. Sun. Modelling and Traffic Signal Control of Heterogeneous Traffic 
Systems. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. Under review. 
 
Peer Reviewed Conference Papers 
1. Y. Zhang, R. Su, N. Sandamali, Y. Zhang and C. G. Cassandras. A Hierarchical Approach for Air Traffic 
Routing and Scheduling. 56th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC’17), 2017. 
2. Y. Zhang, R. Su, C. Sun and Y. Zhang. Modelling and Traffic Signal Control of a Heterogeneous 
Traffic Network with Signalized and Non-Signalized Intersections. 1st IEEE Conference on Control 
Technology and Applications (CCTA’17), 2017. 
3. Y. Zhang, R. Su, Q. Li, C. G. Cassandras and L. Xie. Distributed Flight Routing and Scheduling in Air 
Traffic Flow Management. 55th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC’16), 2016. 
4. Y. Zhang, R. Su, C. Wen, M. Y. Lee and C. Gajanayake. Distributed Power Allocation and Scheduling 
for Electrical Power System in More Electric Aircraft. 42nd Annual Conference of IEEE Industrial 
Electronics Society (IECON), 2016. 
5. Y. Zhang, Q. Li and R. Su. Sector-based Distributed Scheduling Strategy in Air Traffic Flow 
Management. 14-th IFAC Symposium on Control in Transportation Systems (CTS’16), 2016. 
6. Y. Zhang, R. Su and K. Gao. Urban Road Traffic Light Real-Time Scheduling. The 54th IEEE 
Conference on Decision and Control (CDC’15), 2015. 
7. Y. Zhang, Y. Su and R. Su. Real-Time Scheduling in Urban Road Traffic Light Control. 14th Asian 
Pacific Intelligent Transportation System Conference, 2015. 
 

-----
