CURRICULUM VITAE (ABBREVIATED VERSION)  
 
 
NAME: 
AKHTAR KALAM  
 
 
PERMANENT ADDRESS: 
 
 
45 Stuart Street 
 
Moonee Ponds, Melbourne, Victoria, 
 
Australia 3039  
 
Telephone: +61 3 9375 2867 
 
 
CORRESPONDENCE: 
 
 
School of Engineering and Science 
 
Victoria University 
 
PO Box 14428 
 
Melbourne 
 
Victoria, Australia, 8001 
 
Telephone:  
+61 3 9919 5504 
 
Mobile: 
 
+61 4 0788 7964 
 
Facsimile:  
+61 3 9919 4908 
 
Email: 
 
akhtar.kalam@vu.edu.au  
 
Web address: 
http://www.vu.edu.au/Faculties/Health_Engineering_and_Science/Schools/Electrical_Engineering/Staff/
KALAM_Akhtar_Prof/indexdl_85995.aspx 
 
 
PRESENT POSITION: 
PROFESSOR – School of Engineering and Science 
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS: 
 
The University of Bath, Bath, UK, 1978-1981, PhD, Electrical Engineering 
The University of Oklahoma, Norman, USA, 1974-1975, MS, Electrical Engineering 
Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India, 1969-1973, BScEng, Electrical Engineering 
St Xavier's College, Calcutta, India, 1966-1969, BSc, Applied Science 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS: 
 
Engineers Australia – Fellow 
The Institution of Engineers and Technology, UK – Fellow 
The Institution of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, USA - Member 
 

-----
 
CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF POSITIONS AND INSTITUTIONS: 
 
1991 - to date Victoria University, Melbourne, Australia: Professor of Electrical 
Engineering (since 1997), School of Engineering and Science; Deputy Dean 
(1999 - 2006), Faculty of Health, Engineering & Science; Head of Werribee 
Group of Campuses of Victoria University (2000 – 2004), Associate Professor 
(till 1996); Senior Lecturer (till 1992); Research Director (till 1997); Course 
Director for Master’s by coursework program (till 1992); Research grants and 
incentives of around $1.5 million (over the last 5 years) has been obtained 
from both internal to the University and very competitive external bodies 
 
1990 – 1990 City University, London, UK:  Senior Research Fellow (on PEP/ OSP 
program); research in Fault Location of Plain and Teed Feeders 
 
1984 – 1990 Footscray Institute of Technology, Melbourne, Australia:  Senior Lecturer 
(since 1987); Lecturer (till 1986) 
 
1982 – 1984 Capricornia Institute of Advanced Educations, Rockhampton, Australia:  
Lecturer 
 
1976 – 1978 University of Technology, Baghdad, Iraq:  Assistant Lecturer 
 
1975 – 1976 Ingersoll-Rand, Calcutta, India:  Sales Engineer 
1973 – 1974 J.K. & Brothers, Calcutta, India:  Sales Engineer 
 
 
PUBLICATIONS: 
 
29 
Books/Continuing Education Course Materials 
13 
Chapter in Books 
2 
Invited Articles in Magazine 
26 
Keynote Presentations 
56 
Papers in Refereed Journals 
208 
Conference papers in Refereed Proceedings 
14 
Seminar papers in Non-Refereed Proceedings 
1 
Patent 
 
 

-----
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRICULUM VITAE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Professor Akhtar Kalam 
BSc, BScEng, MS, PhD, FIEAust, CPEng, FIET, CEng, MIEEE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

-----
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: 
 
Professor Akhtar Kalam is a Professor of Electrical Engineering in the School of Engineering 
and Science at Victoria University, Melbourne, Australia. 
 
He has been Deputy Dean of the Faculty of Health, Engineering & Science at Victoria 
University for 7 years since 1999. 
 
He has wide experience in educational institutions and industry across four continents. 
 
He has conducted research, provided consultancy and has over three hundred eight publications 
primarily on power system protection and independent power generation. 
 
His key attributes include: 
 
• High academic qualifications in Electrical Engineering.  He was the recipient of the Cleo 
Cross International Scholarship and the University of Bath Scholarship. 
 
• High professional qualifications in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, (CPEng; CEng; 
FIEAust; FIET and MIEEE). 
 
• The capacity to manage teaching, research, industry and consultancy. 
 
• The ability to conduct professional educational development courses to the industry. 
 
• Chair of the Australasian Committee Power Engineering 
 
• Convenor of the Engineers Australia’s Course Accreditation of the engineering 
undergraduate courses at Victoria University. 
 
• Chaired number of accreditation committees for Engineering Australia for the grant of 
necessary approvals to run undergraduate engineering programs in various universities in 
Australia. 
 
• The potentiality to learn and adapt quickly to new environments, cultures and government 
approaches to education, training and research. 
 
• Award Recipient under the category of “Financial and Social Contribution”, celebrating 
excellence in the field of projects/initiatives beneficial to the Australian Muslims in 
Australia, and in particular, Victoria. 
 
• Successful leadership of change processes in systems and organisations. 
 
• The skills to communicate effectively and with a good sense of humour. 
 
• The respect of his colleagues nationally and internationally in his field of expertise. 
 
 

-----
Akhtar KALAM 
 
Employment Address & 
Home Address & 
Contact Information 
Contact Information 
 
Victoria University 
45 Stuart Street 
Footscray Park Campus 
Moonee Ponds 
PO Box 14428 
Victoria  3039 
Melbourne 
Australia 
Victoria  8001 
Australia 
 
Telephone: (+61 3) 9919 5504 
Telephone:  
(03) 9375 2867 
Fax: 
(+61 3) 9919 4908 
Mobile: 
 
(04) 0788 7964 
Email: akhtar.kalam@vu.edu.au  
 
Web address: 
http://www.vu.edu.au/Faculties/Health_Engineering_and_Science/Schools/Electrical_Engineering/Staff/
KALAM_Akhtar_Prof/indexdl_85995.aspx 
 
 
NATIONALITY: Australian 
 
 
CURRENT POSITION: 
 
Professor, 
School of Engineering and Science 
Victoria University, Melbourne, Australia 
 
 
EDUCATION/QUALIFICATIONS: 
 
1981 PhD, Electrical Engineering, the University of Bath, Bath, UK. 
Title of thesis: Fault transient analysis and simulation of series compensated ehv 
transmission lines and associated protective gear. 
 
1975 MS, Electrical Engineering, the University of Oklahoma, Norman, USA 
Title of minor thesis: Cost comparison of energy transported electrically and by rails 
between a mine station in Wyoming and Oklahoma City, a distance of 850 miles. 
 
1973 BSc Eng, Electrical Engineering, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India 
Title of project: Design and fabrication of an artificial transmission line. 
 
1969 BSc, Pure Science, St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, India 
 
1966 Pre-University, St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, India 
 
1965 School Final, Don Bosco School, Calcutta, India 
 

-----
 
PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS: 
 
Chartered Practicing Engineer, Engineers Australia, Australia 
Chartered Engineer, Engineering Council, UK 
Fellowship, Engineers Australia, Australia 
Fellowship, Institution of Engineering and Technology, UK 
Member, Institution of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, USA 
 
 
SERVICE ON PROFESSIONAL AND NATIONAL COMMITTEES: 
 
Advisory Council Member, the Australian Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ 
Association (AEEMA), representing the Australian Vice Chancellors’ Committee (AVCC), 
2004 – 2008 
 
Chair (2007-2009) and currently member of the Australasian Committee Power Engineering 
(ACPE) 
 
Director and Victoria University’s Representative on the Australian Telecommunications 
Cooperative Research Centre (ATcrc), 1999 – 2006 
 
Director and Victoria University’s Representative on the National Networked Teletest 
Facility (NNTTF), 2002 - 2007 
 
Convenor, ESAA Residential School Advisory and Management Committee, 2002 –2006 
 
Associate Editor, Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Australia, 2008 -  
 
Guest Editor, “Special Issue on Power Engineering”, Journal of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering, Australia, 1999 - 2009 
 
Guest Editor, Special Issues on AUPEC’00, International Journal of Renewal Energy 
Engineering, 2 (1), 2000 
 
Member, Chipskills Advisory Committee, 2000 – 2006 
 
Member, Chipskills Management Committee, 2000 – 2006 
 
President, IET, Victoria, 2000 – 2002 
 
Member, CIGRE – Australian Panel B5, 2000 –  
 
Secretary, 3rd International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, 1997 
 
Treasurer, Australian Council of Power Engineers, 1996 – 2000 
 
General and Technical Chair, Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference, 
2006 

-----
 
Technical Chairman, Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference, 1996 
 
Co-chairman, 2nd International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, 1993 
 
Vice-Chairman (Secretariat), Australasia Universities Power and Control Engineering 
Conference, 1991 
 
Committee Member, IET, Victoria, 1990 – 2000 
 
Secretary, Electrical and Electronic Engineering Education (Power and Control) Group, 
1990 – 1994 
 
Director, Australian Cogeneration Association, 1990 – 1994 
 
Vice-President, Australian Cogeneration Association, 1990 – 1993 
 
Co-chairman, Pacific Region Conference in Electrical Engineering Education, 1990 
 
Committee Member, the International Association for the Advancement of Modelling and 
Simulation in Enterprise, South Pacific Group, 1987 
 
Committee Member, 1st International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, 
Melbourne, 1987 
 
Committee Member, Electrical Power Heads in Victoria, 1985 – 1995 
 
 
CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF POSITIONS AND INSTITUTIONS: 
 
1997 – present Victoria University, Melbourne, Australia 
 
Professor, School of Engineering and Science 
1999 – 2006 
Deputy Dean, Faculty of Health, Engineering & Science 
2000 – 2004 
Head of Werribee Group of Campuses at Victoria University 
1997 – 1999 
Head of Department 
1997 -  
Promoted to Professor 
1993 – 1997 
Research Director 
1996 -  
Promoted to Associate Professor 
1991 – 1992 
Director for Master’s by course work programme 
1991 – 1995 
Senior Lecturer 
 
Duties as a Deputy Dean: 
 
• 
deputise for the Dean during periods of his absence and for other occasions; 
• 
coordinate the day to day affairs of the Faculty; 
• 
advise the Dean on academic affairs; 
• 
undertake teaching and research; 
• 
on behalf of the Dean manage and monitor the Faculty’s resources; 

-----
• 
monitor Faculty expenditure, derived from the operating grant, external grants, research 
and other contracts and trust funds, against approved financial delegations for physical 
resources; 
• 
promote equal opportunity in employment and education in the Faculty; 
• 
advise the Dean in coordinating the planning within the Faculty, in particular to assist in 
updating the Faculty’s strategic plan in line with the University’s strategic plan; 
• 
ex-officio member of Dean’s Advisory Committee and Faculty Board of Studies; Dean’s 
nominee on Academic Progress Committee, Faculty Undergraduate and Coursework 
Programs Committee, OSP Committee of the Faculty, Faculty Organisational Change 
Consultative Committee, Workload Board of Review and Faculty Publicity Committee; 
• 
member of selection committees for appointment of academic and general staff of the 
Faculty and a member of Faculty Academic Promotions Committee; 
• 
assist the Dean in promoting the Faculty within the region, nationally and internationally; 
• 
undertake duties or projects as determined from time to time by the Vice-Chancellor, 
Deputy Vice-Chancellors, Pro Vice-Chancellors or the Dean. 
 
2008 – 2010 
Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Malaysia Perlis, Malaysia 
(Concurrent appointment) 
 
External Examiner; 2 weeks in a semester; facilitating planning, research and undergraduate 
processes that are relevant to undergraduate examinations. 
 
2008  
Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 
Malaysia (Concurrent appointment) 
 
Distinguish Visiting Professor; 2 weeks; evaluate Electrical Engineering courses; academic 
accreditation and recognition, present seminar, develop postgraduate programs, co-supervise 
postgraduate students and establish the Quality Management System. 
 
2008 
Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA, Shah 
Alam, Malaysia (Concurrent appointment) 
 
Visiting Professor; 2 weeks; evaluate Electrical Engineering courses; academic accreditation 
and recognition, present seminar, develop postgraduate programs, co-supervise postgraduate 
students and establish the Quality Management System. 
 
2008 – present Australian Journal of Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Power and 
Energy Systems), Engineers Australia (Concurrent appointment) 
 
Associate Editor; work closely with the Editor who assigns submitted papers in the relevant 
area to the Associate Editors through the Editorial Manager System (EMS) used by Engineers 
Media to manage submitted paper. 
 
2004 – present Scienceworks, Melbourne, Australia (Concurrent appointment). 
 
Research Associate; research and consulting activities in the High Voltage Theatre at 
Scienceworks. 
 
2000 – 2004 
Head of Werribee Group of Campuses 
 

-----
Provide leadership and senior point of contact for the staff and the community across a range 
of activities, issues and interests, which include: 
 
• 
participating in the works of the Campus Committee; 
• 
articulating and advocating general direction for the development of the Werribee Group of 
Campuses; 
• 
assisting with the development of proposals for new activities, and facilitating the 
implementation of ongoing activities, which strengthen the Werribee Group of Campuses 
within the university and in the community; 
• 
assisting in attracting high profile events to the Werribee Group of Campuses and act as 
host for such events. 
 
1996 – 1999 Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Malaysia 
(Concurrent appointment) 
 
Visiting Professor; 2 weeks in a semester; evaluate Electrical Engineering courses; establish 
the Quality Management System. 
 
1990 – 1990 
City University, London, UK (Concurrent appointment) 
 
Senior Research Fellow (on PEP/ OSP programme); research in Fault Location of Plain and 
Teed Feeders; develop the analysis; simulate the primary waveforms using Electro Magnetic 
Transient Program (EMTP); work on the secondary programme for fault locator and validated 
the results. 
 
1984 – 1990 
Footscray Institute of Technology, Melbourne, Australia 
1986 –   
Promoted to Senior Lecturer 
1986 – 1990 
Course Director for Master’s by coursework programme 
1984 –1986 
Lecturer 
 
Teach undergraduate and postgraduate electrical engineering subjects viz. Electrical Circuits, 
Electrical Machines, Power System Analysis, Power System Protection and supervise projects. 
 
1982 – 1984 
Capricornia Institute of Advanced Educations, Rockhampton, Australia 
 
Lecturer; teach associate diploma, undergraduate and postgraduate electrical engineering 
subjects viz. Network Theory, Linear Systems Theory, Power System Analysis, Power System 
Protection, Engineering Mathematics and supervise projects. 
 
1976 – 1978 
University of Technology, Baghdad, Iraq 
 
Assistant Lecturer; teach undergraduate electrical engineering subjects viz. Circuit Theory, 
Power System Analysis, Power System Protection, Engineering Mathematics, supervise 
projects and conduct undergraduate and postgraduate High Voltage and Power System 
Laboratory; also assist in building up the High Voltage Laboratory. 
 
1975 – 1976 
Ingersoll-Rand, Calcutta, India 
 
Sales Engineer; study the air requirements of various consumers and suggest suitable 
compressors. 

-----
 
1973 – 1974 
J.K. & Brothers, Calcutta, India 
 
Sales Engineer; supervise the electrical and control installation at various commercial sites and 
suggest improvements. 
 
OTHER RELEVANT EXPERIENCE: 
 
Co-ordinator, Smart Energy Research Group 
Chair, Faculty’s Course Approvals Committee 
Chair, Faculty’s International Committee 
Chair, Faculty’s Publicity Committee 
Chair, Faculty’s Postgraduate Studies Committee 
Program Leader for Program 6 – Commercialisation and Technology transfer 
Member of the University’s Learning and Teaching Strategy Working Group 
Faculty’s representative on the University Postgraduate Studies Committee 
Faculty’s representative on the University Marketing Committee 
Faculty’s representative on the University Course Approvals Committee 
Ex-officio member of the Dean’s Advisory Committee 
Ex-officio member of the Faculty’s Board of Studies 
Nominee of the Dean on various other committees 
Convenor of the Engineers Australia’s Course Accreditation of the engineering undergraduate 
courses at Victoria University 
Chairing number of accreditation committees for Engineering Australia for the grant of 
necessary approvals to run undergraduate engineering programs in various universities in 
Australia 
Establishing and adopting the Quality Management System in the Faculty of Health, 
Engineering & Science 
Principal Investigator and Project Manager of major research incentives from energy sector 
industries 
Project Manager of Save Energy Research (SER) Group 
Providing academic leadership in the energy area 
Development and modification of undergraduate and postgraduate courses 
Liaison with industries 
Preparation of submissions for grants in the key research area of Telecommunication and 
Microelectronics on behalf of the Faculty 
Teaching in the ESAA’s continuing education programmes on Power System Protection, 
Cogeneration and Gas Turbine Operation and Grid Connected Systems 
Conducting ESAA’s distance education course on Power System Protection 
Supervising postgraduate projects/ theses as Principal and Co-supervisor 
 
 
CONSULTANCY and INDUSTRIAL CONTACTS: 
 
Several joint projects have been carried out with the electricity supply industry and other staff 
members with the Department.  Close links with various personnel of different organizations 
have been developed and are listed as follows: 
 
SPAusnet – Victoria – Mr. Narendra Balvally 
SPI PowerNet – Victoria – Dr Adam Klebanowski, Mr. Alex Palmarczuk 

-----
Powercor Australia – Mr. Bob Coulter 
Pacific Power – Mr. Stephen Boroczky, Mr. Harvey Bell 
Western Power – Mr. Harry McDonald 
AGL – Mr. Colin Harrison, Mr. Ed Piegel 
Flexible Drive Agencies – Mr. Kevin Murray 
Nielsen Electric – Mr. Nahidh Karim, Mr. Vincent Ceravolo 
Port Melbourne City Council – Mr. Bob Maker 
Energy Research and Development Corporation – Mr. Merv Johnston, Mr.Griff Rose 
Energy Supply Association of Australia – Mr. Allan Spicer, Mr. Ken Simms, Mr. Lawrence 
Bolton, Mr. Patrick McMullen 
Monash University – Professor Bob Morrison, Professor Peter Wallace 
RMIT – Associate Professor Majid Al-Dabbagh 
University of Western Australia – Professor Derek Humpage, Associate Professor T.T. 
Nguyen, Professor Kit Po Wong 
University of Central Queensland – Associate Professor Ward Oghana, Mr. Seshaprasad, Mr. 
Jack Sandell 
University of Bath, UK – Professor Allan Johns, Professor Raj Aggarwal, Dr Philip Moore, Dr 
M Elkateb 
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, India – Professor Jagdish Nanda, Professor Dash Kothari 
Crescent Engineering College, India – Professor Peer Mohammed 
National University of Science & Technology, Pakistan – Lt General Shujaat Hussain 
Universiti Teknologi, Malaysia – Professor Hashim Saibon, Associate Professor Mohammad 
Zin 
King Abdulaziz University, Saudi Arabia – Dr Anwar Ali Mufti 
King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Saudi Arabia – Dr M. H. Swehdi 
University of Jordan, Jordan – Professor D.M. Dalabeih, Associate Professor H.M. Hamdan, 
Associate Professor G Halasa 
 
I have been invited by the media to comment on my work.  Also I have chaired a number of 
sessions both at national and international levels in conferences and seminars.  I have also 
given useful feedback to national and international review committees.  I have been invited to 
give views both on personal capacity as well as a consultant by a number of electricity supply 
related companies.  As a consultant each of the projects has brought earning from $2,000 to 
$25,000 to the university.  A list of my current consultancies as follows: 
 
Flexible Drive Agencies – Testing of windscreen motors from different suppliers 
 
Baker & McKenzie Solicitors – Concepts of cogeneration in relation to arbitration between 
Smithfield and Integral 
 
Agility Management Pty Ltd – Study into commercialization of microturbines 
 
Powercor Australia – Development of a practical hybrid energy system 
 
Powercor Australia – Dairy Farm Demonstration Package 
 
CSIRO Manufacturing Science and Technology – Fuel Cells for cogeneration purpose 
 
Department of State and Regional Development – Business Growth Program – Solar Network 
 

-----
Brunswick Energy & Environmental Services – Freeway Photovoltaic Project 
 
Northern Territory Power and Water Authority – Low frequency induction and earth 
potential rise analysis for telecommunications coordination 
 
Kennedy-Taylor (Vic) Pty Ltd – ABC Southbank Substation harmonics calculations 
 
State Electricity Commission of Victoria – Review and report on the significant neutral 
harmonic currents present when a 415 V, 487.5kVA generator is operated in parallel with 
the SECV system 
 
Ballarat Base Hospital – Review of cogeneration protection at BBH rated 22kV/415V 
 
Toussaint & Richardson Pty Ltd – Combined Differential/ REF protection for 27MVA, 
132/23.3kV transformer including earthing transformers 
 
Kvaerner Boving (ANZ) Pty Ltd – Minimum protection and cost for small stand-by 
generators (440 – 600 kW) 
 
Footscray City Council – Analysis for protection requirements for LV and HV generators 
in parallel with utility distribution network 
 
BHP Steel – Knowledge based system for transformer protection design 
 
ASEA Brown Boveri – Review of transmission protection system and fault locators 
 
Nielsen Industrial Electronics Pty Ltd – Digital Energy Meters 
 
Crescent Engineering College, India – Faculty of Engineering infrastructure 
 
National University of Science and Technology, Pakistan – Review the engineering 
programmes 
 
 
RESEARCH INTERESTS: 
 
My current research topics are:  
 
1. Power transmission and distribution networks utilising underground cables 
2. Performances of Distribution Transformers 
3. Development of Hybrid Energy Systems 
4. Artificial Intelligence and its application to Power Systems 
5. Telecommunication in Power System Protection 
6. Algorithms for battery storage plants (BSPs) when connected to a utility grid in power and 
industrial networks 
7. Design and development of protection and control tools to enable the efficient and reliable 
use of cogeneration and renewable energy plants 
8. Fuel cells and its application in cogeneration 
9. Fault location techniques to distribution feeders 
10. Dynamic studies in Power Systems 

-----
 
 
RESEARCH GRANTS FROM INDUSTRY AND GOVERNMENT: 
 
Have been successful in obtaining substantial research grants and incentives worth more than 
$1.5 million obtained from both internal to the University and very competitive external 
bodies. 
 
A short list of achievements includes: 
 
Funding from API for the development of alternative energy systems laboratory (2009-10). 
This project is for development of a laboratory model for demonstrating diverse alternative 
energy systems. The overall aim is to: 
 
• attract undergraduate students to opt for Power Engineering; 
• give opportunity for undergraduate students to do experimental studies and get hands-
on experience; 
• provide avenue for open day shows demonstrating to the general public alternative 
sources of power; 
• build a new laboratory which will attract students from all over the university to 
observe diversification of power sources (viz. wind, PV, battery and fuel cells).   
 
API has allocated $50,000 towards this project. 
 
Funding from API for the development of effective power system monitoring system using 
Broadband over Power Line (2008-9). This project will investigate the technology behind 
broadband over power line (BPL) and develop an effective, reliable and secure power system 
monitoring system using BPL for the next generation power utility. BPL may even provide 
utilities with benefits beyond additional revenue. The same system that transmits internet data 
can be used to remotely monitor household electricity usage, eliminating the need to send a 
technician out to inspect the household meter. The system can also provide detailed feedback 
on electricity usage in real time, which could potentially detect brownouts before they escalate 
into blackouts. For home and office broadband users, the ever presence of power lines offer 
services that were not available to many in remote areas. For broadband users in the urban 
areas, additional choices mean competitive prices and better services. API has allocated 
$50,000 towards this project. 
 
Funding from Olex Australia Pty Ltd for providing standard testing procedure for XLPE 
cables (2005-6). This research project investigates water treeing in standard, monosil and tree-
retardant XLPE in medium voltage power cables. The project aims is to study the existing 
Australian manufactured XLPE cables that are currently being used by Olex overseas and 
niche testing procedures that will be acceptable universally. Olex in the initial phase has 
allocated $45,000 towards this project. 
 
Funding from the Energy Safe Victoria (formerly known as the Office of the Chief Electrical 
Inspector) for Technical consideration and impact of converting Overhead Lines to 
Underground Power Cables (2004-8). This research investigates the technical trend of moving 
overhead lines to underground cables. It looks at both the local and overseas experience and 
practices in this area. New ideas are contributing in the development of underground system 

-----
significantly, which enhance reliability, efficiency and lowering the cost of installation and 
maintenance. These ideas covers various phases of underground system. The objective of this 
research is to investigate the effect of new technology and practices on moving overhead lines 
to underground cables to improve safety of personal efficiency e.g. reduce risks of fatal 
accidents caused by cars hitting poles and reliability of electricity supply, as well as improve 
the landscape. The project aims is to study the existing and new underground system designs, 
identify few novel designs and analyse them to develop a model that will increase reliability 
and efficiency of electricity supply. The Energy Safe Victoria has allocated $140,000 towards 
this project. 
 
Funding from the State Government for Building Integrated Photovoltaic Showcase 
Installations and Energy Efficiency Awareness in Regional Victoria (2003-5). The 
Commonwealth Government Photovoltaic Rebate Program (PVRP) provides up to $10,000 for 
a 2-kilowatt (kW) solar PV system on a community-use building.  Whilst a number of 
metropolitan councils and educational institutions have availed themselves of the PVRP, the 
take up from regional areas has been less pronounced. Most PV systems installed under the 
PVRP have been overlays on existing structures.  Building Integrated Photovoltaics (BIPV) is 
where the photovoltaics are part of the building fabric and fully integrated into external wall 
cladding or roofing material.  This technology is lagging considerably in Australia compared 
to, for example, in Europe or Japan. This project aims to seek out and develop three BIPV 
installations on community facilities in regional Victoria.  Each installation is in a suitable high 
profile position and incorporates a different style/type of leading edge building integrated 
photovoltaic product.  Potential installations were sought through working with councils and 
other suitable organisations (eg. schools) that were in the process of constructing or renovating 
their own community buildings. Awareness of greenhouse, energy efficiency and renewable 
energy has been raised through the project and savings pledged by the community through 
undertaking simple energy efficiency measures at home. Depending on installation complexity, 
the aim is to install up to 3 kW of BIPV at each location.  The cost of each installation is met 
through a combination of the PVRP, Community Action Fund and a contribution from the 
recipient of each of the systems. A 3 kW system covers approximately 30 square metres, and is 
substantial enough to stimulate local interest.  The project is extensively promoted through a 
variety of channels, during the search for participants at the beginning, and again as each 
installation commenced and when completed. Victoria University provides research, 
development and testing services for the BIPV products.  A unique Internet site dedicated to 
BIPV in Australia was developed with the support of Victoria University featured the new 
regional Victorian 'mini-Showcase' BIPV projects. The Community Action Fund from the 
Victorian Government allocated $50,000 for this project. 
 
Funding from Australian Gas Light (AGL) Electricity for Fault detection and location on 
Distribution Feeders (22kV & 11kV) (2000-4). Following the privatisation of the Victorian 
Electricity Supply Industry, AGL Electricity emerged as one of the five electricity distribution 
companies in Victoria. One of the Key Performance Indicators set for the company by the 
Office of the Regulator-General is the Reliability of Supply. Two major indices that 
characterise the Reliability of Supply are the customer minutes off supply and frequency of 
customer supply interruptions. AGL’s objective is to minimise these two indices so that the 
Reliability of Supply standards set by the Office of the Regulator-General are met and indeed 
exceeded. Progressive automation of AGL’s distribution feeder network, i.e. 22kV and 11kV, 
was adopted as a means of improving the Reliability of Supply. An absolute prerequisite for 
safe Distribution Feeder Automation is a reliable fault detection and fault location scheme. 
Thus the development of the fault detection and location scheme is perceived by AGL as a 

-----
preliminary but essential step that will lead to full Distribution Feeder Automation. At present 
there are a number of Radio Remotely Controlled & Monitored High Voltage devices that were 
introduced on AGL’s network as part of the gradual approach to Feeder Automation. This 
research involved introduction, project management as well as for the development of the 
communication strategy necessary for this application. A fault detection and location scheme 
has been developed which is applicable to the electrical distribution network and facilitates a 
safe and reliable reconfiguration of the distribution feeder(s) under fault condition. Achieving 
this objective has resulted in an improvement in the Reliability of Supply, which is a key factor 
in AGL operation. AGL Electricity allocated $120,000 towards this project. 
 
Earlier research and competitive funding (1989-95).  
 
Have been successful in obtaining substantial funding worth $1,043,192 for the period 1989-
95. Research grants and incentives obtained from both internal to the University and very 
competitive external bodies are as follows: 
 
IMPACT OF THE INCLUSION OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES, BATTERY STORAGE 
AND COGENERATION ON POWER UTILITIES 
 
The objectives of the project is to facilitate the introduction of grid connected elements such as 
cogeneration, renewable energy sources and battery storage and increase the safety, reliability 
and energy efficiency and decrease the system operating costs of, the resultant composite 
system by: 
 
• developing, testing, demonstrating and promoting to industry, a standard computer model 
for assessing the impact of grid connected renewable energy sources, battery storage and 
cogeneration systems in power system planning and industrial energy usage planning 
 
• developing, testing, demonstrating and promoting to industry, a standard system for 
automatic control and protection of renewable energy sources, cogeneration systems and 
battery storage, and their interface with the utility grid. 
 
Joint work with RMIT and SECV - VU was the submitting organisation and I was the 
principal investigator and the project manager. The total value of research incentive was 
$744,000 from 1993-95 period, with 50% financial contribution from Energy Research and 
Development Corporation, 14% by RMIT, 17% by SECV and 19% by VU. 
 
ACCURATE TRANSMISSION LINE FAULT LOCATOR 
 
There is always an urgent need for research in this area, in order to assist operational staff to 
quickly and accurately locate faults; to enable supply to be rapidly restored and to avoid major 
Power System consequences. The main objectives of the research was involving development 
of mathematical and digital techniques to ensure accuracy and reliability in fault location and 
the development will have practical application and be of significant benefit to all Australian 
power authorities. 
 
Recipient of the Electrical Industry Research grant of $30,000 for the year 1990-92, for 
development of the locator. 
 

-----
APPLICATION OF MODAL ANALYSIS USING ADAPTIVE SCHEME OF INTERFERENCE 
CANCELLATION FOR POWER LINE CARRIER COMMUNICATION 
 
Power line carrier (PLC) is widely used for the communication of RF signals over high voltage 
lines. The rapid development over the last few decades of power lines for long distance 
transmission has caused an increasing demand for PLC facilities. PLC is applied to power lines 
for providing voice communication and many other vital services viz. protective relaying, 
telemetering, load-frequency control, supervisory control, fault location. Frequencies in the 
range of 30 - 300 kHz are commonly utilised in PLC. This frequency band is high enough to 
be isolated from the power frequency and associated noise, yet not so high enough so as to 
encounter excessive attenuation. Line traps are now commonly in use in PLC application. 
These are expensive to manufacture and maintain because of the large amount of power 
frequency current that is carried. 
 
Adaptive techniques have been applied for cancelling harmonics noise in distribution systems. 
In an active filtering technique, a portion of transmitted/received signal is adjusted in phase and 
amplitude and fed in external side of the link in order to cancel the leaks through the line trap. 
The building block uses the correlation cancellation loop (CCL). In this work CCL technique 
has been adopted for adaptive interference cancellation as applied to PLC over hv and ehv 
transmission lines in order to provide a low-cost solution for achieving high level cross-bus 
isolation, so that PLC signals can be used in adjacent line sections without mutual interference. 
Modal analysis theory has been used to study non-conventional couplings. 
 
DEET Overseas Student Award (EMSS) for PhD Study of $43,500 for the year 1992-94. 
 
DEVELOPMENT OF A KNOWLEDGE BASED SYSTEM FOR POWER SYSTEM 
PROTECTION 
 
This research deals with an expert system technique for the design, testing, and assessment of 
relay protection systems. This work will introduce new engineers with limited expertise in 
power system protection to experience the knowledge and information of the subject. 
 
Recipient of the Australian Electrical Research Board grant of $10,000 for the year 1989 and 
$6,000 for the year 1990. $11,900 grant for the year 1991. 
 
APPLICATION OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE FOR ASSESSING POWER SYSTEM 
PROTECTION PERFORMANCE 
 
The objective of this research is to create a library of expert for complete power system design, 
analysis and assessment. This project is a joint work with the State Electricity Commission of 
Victoria. A common expert shell KAPPA is used, so that the developed work can be easily 
transferable between the organisations. 
 
Recipient of the Australian Electricity Supply Industry Research Board grant of $27,500 for 
the year 1992. Grant approved for 1993 is $18,200. 
 
APPLICATION OF FUZZY LOGIC STABILISERS FOR POWER SYSTEMS 
 
Power system stabilisers have been known to be used to improve the dynamic performance of a 

-----
power system. Normally a lead-lag stabiliser is used, where the gain settings are fixed at 
certain values. With abnormal conditions, it is advisable to adapt the stabiliser parameter in 
real-time based on on-line measurements. This led to the development of self-tuning stabiliser 
and better dynamic performance. However, identification in real-time is time consuming. So, it 
is suggested that a new type of stabiliser, which does not use real-time identification, be used. 
To improve operating conditions speed deviation and acceleration of a machine are chosen as 
input to the stabiliser. Recent techniques have seen wide use of rule-based systems, 
knowledge-based systems, fuzzy logic etc. Fuzzy logics are used as a means of expressing 
necessarily imprecise knowledge and coping with problems of an incomplete knowledge base. 
Use is made of fuzzy relation matrix, which gives the input to output relationship. Such 
approach may be used for practical implementation. 
 
FIT post-graduate industry award of $38,208 for the year 1990-92 for PhD study. 
 
 
A SEQUENTIAL APPROACH OF SOLVING EXACT DECOUPLED SECOND ORDER AC-
DC LOAD FLOW AND STATE ESTIMATION PROBLEM 
 
This research presents a new framework for second order ac-dc load flow in rectangular 
coordinates. Such formulation is completely expressible in the Taylor series and contains 
derivatives up to the second order only, the third and other higher order derivatives being zero. 
The Jacobian matrix is kept constant and thereby, needs to be computed and triangularised 
once only in the iterative scheme. The newly developed super second order algorithms for the 
ac system load flow are computationally more efficient and reliable than the Newton-Raphson 
and fast decoupled load flow algorithms. In addition a new version is proposed which presents 
better performance. 
 
FIT post-graduate industry award of $38,208 for the year 1992-95 for PhD study 
 
ADVANCED 
MICROPROCESSOR 
BASED 
RELAYS 
FOR 
OVERCURRENT 
AND 
DIFFERENTIAL PROTECTION 
 
The aim of the research program is to develop new digital relaying technique for a secure 
relaying protection using microprocessor based principles. The speed of the relay response is 
enhanced by the use of 32-bit microprocessor. 
 
This project, when successful, has the ability of providing the power system protection with 
reliability, accuracy, security, reduction in maintenance costs, reducing panel space 
requirements etc, which is of prime importance and relevance to the power industry. 
 
FIT post-graduate industry award of $38,208 for the year 1992-95 for PhD study. 
 
TRANSIENT ANALYSIS OF INDUCTION GENERATORS INTERCONNECTED TO THE 
POWER GRID 
 
Dispersed storage and generation devices are connected to the distribution feeders. Problems 
due to over-voltages due to shunt faults, self-excitation of generators etc can occur. The aim of 
this project is to study the transient voltages and currents occurring due to fault conditions at 
various points in the system, to be able to predict any abnormalities in the system and also to 
highlight current trends in the planning of such type of connections. 

-----
 
FIT post-graduate industry award of $18,734 for the year 1990-91 for Master's study. 
 
DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT OF MICROPROCESSOR BASED DEVICE TO PROTECT 
POWER DISTRIBUTION FEEDER AGAINST ARCING FAULTS 
 
High impedance faults occur randomly in distribution system and are not easily detected by 
traditional protection devices. These faults pose potential fire hazard and property damage 
including risk to public safety. As such there is a desire in the utility industry to detect these 
faults. The main objectives of the research are to develop mathematical techniques to check the 
occurrence of such faults and to build a microprocessor device to protect against such 
abnormalities. 
 
FIT post-graduate industry award of $18,734 for the year 1992-93 for Master's study. 
 
 
DEVELOPMENT 
OF 
SUCCESSFUL 
PARTNERSHIPS 
WITH 
INDUSTRIES AND OTHER UNIVERSITIES:  
 
Have been involved in the following leading edge research and development which have 
regional, national and international relevance:  
 
Australian Telecommunications CRC (2001-6). I represented the University, the convenor of 
the Victorian node and was a Director in the CRC. The members were Curtin, Monash, RMIT, 
Victoria University, University of Western Australia, Ericsson, Vodaphone, Agilent, Open 
Telecommunications, and several other SME companies. 
 
National Networked Tele-Test Facility for Integrated Systems (2001-7). The collaborating 
partners of this consortium were Edith Cowan, Victoria University, University of Western 
Australia, Adelaide, Griffith, Motorola, Intelligent Pixels, Gemplus, Spider Silicon, Australian 
Microelectronics Network, RADLogic, Mentor Technologies and Agilent. As the university's 
representative and a Director on the consortium I aided in successfully attracting $4.77 million 
from Federal Government under the Major National Research Facility Program and $300,000 
from the State Government of Victoria. 
 
Victorian State Government's Chipskills Program (2000-6).  Microelectronics is the world's 
fastest growing industry. It is forecast to be the key driver of applications such as in internet 
and small-scale technologies, wireless technologies, embedded systems, automotive, 
transportation and biotechnology. Initially Victorian government together with a number of 
Victorian universities (Victoria University, RMIT, LaTrobe and Swinburne) and key industry 
players (Ericsson, NEC, Bandspeed, Agilent, Bosch, Fujitsu, Motorola, Softronics, Calyptech, 
Spangaro Systems, Analog Devices and Semiconductor Technologies Australia) developed a 
full-fee paying postgraduate coursework programmes in Microelectronic Engineering. From 
2003 onwards the universities partners are RMIT and Victoria University. Having strong 
industry backing, these are the first programmes of its kind in Australia. Students enrolled in 
these programmes have access to cutting edge design tools, opportunities to work on real 
industry projects and gain skills that the microelectronic industry demands. I managed this 
programme in the Faculty, Chair the Management Committee and represent the university at 
various external levels.  

-----
 
 
LEADERSHIP 
IN 
COMMUNITY 
AFFAIRS 
- 
PROFESSIONAL, 
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS: 
 
High Voltage Electricity educational and research facility at Scienceworks (2002-till date). 
Victoria University and Scienceworks have recognised the importance of promoting science, 
engineering and technology to not only researchers and general community, but also to 
primary, secondary and tertiary sectors youth. Therefore the two institutions developed a novel 
and unique theatre (approximate cost $550,000) that captures the imagination of the Australian 
youth. Telstra donated its multi-million dollar High Voltage Research laboratory equipment to 
Scienceworks. The equipment included an impulse generator and Tesla coil capable of 
generating 2 million volts of electricity.  Such equipment is rare and unable to easily be 
replicated and the knowledge of its operation lies with very few people in Australia. The 
equipment is used for public demonstrations, formal education/training programs and on-going 
research. Scienceworks utilised parts of this equipment and expertise in its recent "Megawatt" 
exhibition, during which a science show about electricity and its properties, lightning strikes, 
magnetism and safety was provided hourly with great response from general visitors and 
education audiences alike. No other Science Centre of Museum (Boston Science Museum 
comes close) utilises this capacity of high voltage generation in its programming.  The capacity 
for Scienceworks to offer this experience and educational program on an ongoing basis is 
extremely beneficial to the community. 
 
Conceived and led the formulation of the Victoria University Islamic College, Memorandum of 
Understanding signed in July 2000.  The understanding provides Victoria University and a 
community based organisation to be offering foundation course and first year programmes in 
business and science. It will enable approximately 500 eftsus of overseas students to 
commence from 2005. There is also an opportunity to provide education to local community 
students in courses such as nursing and teacher education. The community is going to 
contribute in pastoral care, publicity, promotion and student accommodation towards this 
project. This will provide a golden opportunity for VU to attract further fee-paying students. 
 
Head of the Werribee Campus of Victoria University (2000-2004).  This role has effectively 
provided me with ideal leadership opportunities. It is a senior point of contact for staff and the 
community across a range of activities, issues and interests. Werribee Campus is developing 
into the research wing of the university. Close association with BHP, the Austin Research 
Institute and the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories can provide incentives for 
major infrastructure development (over $25 million) and research. 
 
Chair various Committees in the Faculty (1999-), which includes course approvals committee, 
publicity committee, international committee, postgraduate studies committee etc. This gives 
me an opportunity to work closely with the staff of the Faculty, understand the needs of the 
market, foster undergraduate and research training programmes. 
 
Visiting Professor at Universiti of Teknologi, Malaysia (1996-2000). I was invited to be the 
external examiner for UTM, Malaysia - a rare honour for an Australian academic. This has 
given me an appreciation of international programmes in engineering, enabled me to share and 
learn best practices and has provided me with the opportunity to use established international 
benchmarking. 

-----
 
Spear headed the development of the first Doctoral programme in Electrical and Electronic 
Engineering (1989), recognised as one of the more successful research programmes within the 
Faculty of Science, Engineering & Technology. Half of the University's research students and 
income comes from the Faculty of Science, Engineering & Technology. In 2006, I also 
developed the first professional doctorate (DEngSc) programme to cater for the needs of South 
East Asian market. 
 
Professional Development courses (1984-). I am contracted by API and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia (ESAA) to run professional development courses in Australia and 
New Zealand in the area of Power System Protection and Cogeneration & Gas Turbine 
Operation. I have also been invited to run these courses in South East Asia and the Middle 
East. The courses also include presentations by a number of industry experts and are designed 
to give delegates the basic skills to commence practice in the topic. I was the Convenor of the 
ESAA Residential School in Electric Power Engineering. 
 
Examiner of External Thesis (1984-). I am examiner of Master and Doctoral thesis of various 
universities in Australia and overseas. 
 
Keynote Speaker. I have been invited to be the keynote speaker in numerous conferences, 
workshops both nationally and internationally. 
 
Accreditation Panel Member. Chair and a member of the evaluation panel for Engineers 
Australia for accreditation of undergraduate engineering courses. Have also been invited by 
interstate and overseas universities to conduct review of their engineering programs. 
 
Editor. I am the Guest Editor of Engineers Australia Special Journal on Power Engineering, 
International Journal of Renewable Energy Engineering and other conference proceedings. I 
am a regular examiner of ARC proposals, IET and other journals. 
 
 
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS: 
 
A significant amount of papers (journal and conference – refereed and non-refereed) and books 
have been written and published both in Australia and overseas. 
 
(1) Books/ Continuing Education Course Material 
 
Kalam, A. and Kothari, D.P., 2009, ‘Power System Protection and Communications’. 
Published by: New Age International (P) Ltd Publishers, ISBN 978-81-224-2741-7. 
 
Kalam, A., 2006, ‘AUPEC06’. Victoria University, ISBN 978 1 86272 669 7 detail 
available at website www.staff.vu.edu.au/aupec2006/ 
 
Kalam, A., Bennett, B., Broadbent, D., Clark, G., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Smith, R. 
and Skidmore, K., 2002,  ‘Cogeneration and Gas Turbine Operation’, 6th Edition. 
Electricity Supply Association of Australia, and Victoria University of Technology, ISBN 
1 86272 429 6. 
 

-----
Kalam, A., Spicer, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Biasizzo, C. and McDonald, H., 2002, 
‘Power System Protection’, 6th Edition. Victoria University of Technology and Electricity 
Supply Association of Australia, ISBN 1 86272 434 3. 
 
Kalam, A., Bennett, B., Broadbent, D., Clark, G., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Smith, R. 
and Skidmore, K., 2000,  ‘Cogeneration and Gas Turbine Operation’.  Electricity 
Supply Association of Australia, Australian Cogeneration of Australia and Victoria 
University of Technology, ISBN 1 86272 429 6. 
 
Kalam, A., Spicer, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Biasizzo, C. and McDonald, H., 1999,  
‘Power System Protection’, 5th Edition. Victoria University of Technology and Electricity 
Supply Association of Australia, ISBN 1 86272 473 3. 
 
Kalam, A., Bennett, B., Broadbent, D., Clark, G., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A. and Smith, 
R., 1999,  ‘Cogeneration and Gas Turbine’.  Electricity Supply Association of Australia, 
Australian Cogeneration of Australia and Victoria University of Technology, ISBN 1 
86272 429 6. 
 
Kalam, A., Spicer, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Biasizzo, C. and McDonald, H., 1998,  
‘Power System Protection’. Victoria University of Technology and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia, ISBN 1 86272 473 3. 
 
Kalam, A., Bennett, B., Broadbent, D., Clark, G., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A. and Smith, 
R., 1998,  ‘Cogeneration’.  Electricity Supply Association of Australia, Australian 
Cogeneration of Australia and Victoria University of Technology, ISBN 1 86272 429 6. 
 
Kalam, A., Spicer, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Biasizzo, C. and McDonald, H., 1998,  
‘Power System Protection’.  Victoria University of Technology and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia, ISBN 1 86272 473 3. 
 
Aldin, M. and Kalam, A., 1996,  ‘AUPEC’96’.  The University of Melbourne, 3 volumes, 
ISBN 0646 29426 1 (set), 0646 29654 X, 0646 29654 8 and 0646 29658 2. 
 
Kalam, A. and Coulter, R., 1996,  ‘Power System Protection’.  Victoria University of 
Technology and Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, ISBN 1 86272 473 3. 
 
Kalam, A. and Spicer, A., 1996.  ‘Power System Protection – Unit and Study Guide’.  
Deakin University and Electricity Supply Association of Australia, Cat No SEE601FS1-4. 
 
Kalam, A., Spicer, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Biasizzo, C. and McDonald, H., 1996,  
‘Power System Protection’.  Victoria University of Technology and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia, ISBN 1 86272 473 3. 
 
Kalam, A., Bennett, B., Broadbent, D., Clark, G., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A. and Smith, 
R., 1996,  ‘Cogeneration’.  Electricity Supply Association of Australia, Australian 
Cogeneration of Australia and Victoria University of Technology, ISBN 1 86272 429 6. 
 
Thomas, M., Symons, R., Bush, R., Dixon, J. and Kalam, A., 1995,  ‘Packaging Private 
Power’.  Australian Cogeneration of Australia and Victoria University of Technology, 
ISBN 1 86272 466 0. 

-----
 
Kalam, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Biasizzo, C. and McDonald, H., 1995,  ‘Power 
System Protection’.  Victoria University of Technology and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia, ISBN 1 86272 473 3. 
 
Kalam, A., Bennett, B., Broadbent, D., Clark, G., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A. and Smith, 
R., 1994,  ‘Cogeneration’.  Electricity Supply Association of Australia, Australian 
Cogeneration of Australia and Victoria University of Technology, ISBN 1 86272 429 6. 
 
Kalam, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Biasizzo, C. and McDonald, H., 1994,  ‘Power 
System Protection’.  Victoria University of Technology and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia, ISBN 1 86272 430 X. 
 
Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1993,  ‘Modelling and Simulation: Keys to Technological 
Advances’.  Victoria University of Technology, 2 volumes, ISBN 1 86272 4229 and 1 
86272 4237. 
 
Kalam, A., Bell, H. and Klebanowski, A., 1993,  ‘Power System Protection 
(Transmission and Distribution)’.  Victoria University of Technology and Electricity 
Supply Association of Australia. 
 
Kalam, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Gubbins, J. and McDonald, H., 1992,  ‘Power 
System Protection’.  Victoria University of Technology and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia. 
 
Kalam, A., Coulter, R., Klebanowski, A., Gubbins, J., Maker, B. and McDonald, H., 1991,  
‘Power System Protection’.  Victoria University of Technology and Electricity Supply 
Association of Australia. 
 
Kalam, A., 1990,  ‘Power System Protection for distribution, sub-transmission and 
transmission engineers’.  Victoria University of Technology 
 
Kalam, A., Maker, R. and Bennett, B., 1987,  ‘Power System Protection’. Footscray 
Institute of Technology. 
 
Kalam, A., 1986,  ‘Power System Protection for municipal electrical authorities’.  
Footscray Institute of Technology. 
 
Kalam, A., Alford, R., Bird, A., Evans, G., Haimes, R., King, E., Leonard, T., O’Neill, H., 
Schultz, H. and McKeown, B., 1984,  ‘Circuit Breakers’.  Capricornia Institute of 
Advanced Education. 
 
Kalam, A. and Johns, A.T., 1983,  ‘Recent trends in Power System Protection and their 
application’.  Capricornia Institute of Advanced Education and Gipsland Insitute of 
Advanced Education. 
 
Kalam, A. and Schroder, F., 1983,  ‘Power System Protection for para-professional’.  
Capricornia Institute of Advanced Education. 
 
 

-----
(2) Chapters in Books 
 
Kalam, A., 2009, ‘Protection Fundamentals and Fault CalculationsFault Calculations’, - 
Protection, Control and Metering, API 2009 Power Engineering Accelerated 
Development School (Residential), “Sustainable Power Industry Solutions for 
Customers in the 21st Century” – Curtin University of Technology, February, 2009. 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Fault Calculations’, API 2008 Residential School in Power 
Engineering, “Power Industry Solutions for Customers in the 21st Century” – 
University of Tasmania, February, 2008. 
 
Kalam, A., 2007, ‘Fault Calculations’, ESAA Residential School 2007, “Power Industry: 
Growth and Innovation in a Changing World” – University of Tasmania, January – 
February, 2007. 
 
Kalam, A., 2006, ‘Fault Calculations’, ESAA Residential School 2006, “Lowering costs 
whilst improving reliability – the new technology imperative” – University of New 
South Wales, January – February, 2006. 
 
Kalam, A., 2005, ‘Fault Calculations’, ESAA Residential School 2005, “Lowering costs 
whilst improving reliability – the new technology imperative” – University of New 
South Wales, January – February, 2005. 
 
Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Fault Calculations’, ESAA Residential School 2004, “Operational 
Excellence build upon Technical Business Excellence” – Queensland University of 
Technology, January – February 2004. 
 
Singh, J. and Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Chipskills Program: A unique partnership between 
University, Industry and Government’, iNEER Publication Innovation 2004, Chapter 8, 
pp. 73-82. 
 
Kalam, A., 2002,  ‘Power System Communication’, 2002 Residential School in Electrical 
Power Engineering, “Innovation in Technology for the Electric Power Industry” – 
Monash University, January – February, 2002, Paper No. 42. 
 
Kalam, A., 2002, ‘Cogeneration and Distributed Resources’, 2002 Residential School in 
Electric Power Engineering, “Innovation in Technology for the Electric Power 
Industry” – Monash University, January – February, 2002, Paper No. 20. 
 
Kalam, A., 2002, ‘Present Day Protection Issues’, 2002 Residential School in Electric 
Power Engineering, “Innovation in Technology for the Electric Power Industry” – 
Monash University, January – February, 2002, Paper No. 41. 
 
Kalam, A., 2002, ‘New Power from the Sun’, 2002 Residential School in Electric Power 
Engineering, “Innovation in Technology from the Electric Power Industry” – Monash 
University, January – February, 2002, Paper No. 40. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, “DC Transmission Networks”, Wiley Encyclopaedia of Electrical and 
Electronic Engineering, Ed. John Webster. New York, USA: John Wiley & Sons, Vol. 5, 
pp. 91-3, ISBN 0 471 13946 7. 

-----
 
Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Network Analysis and Fault Calculations’, 1993 Residential School in 
Electric Power Engineering at Monash University, January – February, 1993, pp.I2-1-
20, ISBN 0 85875 067 8, ISBN 085875 068 6. 
 
 
(3) Invited Article in Magazine 
 
Kalam, A., 1996, ‘University Cogeneration Centres are needed now’, Australian 
Independent Power, Keith Stenhouse and Associates, July – August 1996, pp. 5. 
 
Kalam, A, 1992, ‘Private Renewables’, Electrical Engineer, Thomas Publications 
Australia, December 1992, pp. 28-30. 
 
Kalam, A, 2009, ‘Engineering our future’, On-line Opinion, , Australia’s e-journal of 
social and political debate, The National Forum ISSN 1442-8458, August 2009, 
http://www.onlineopinion.com.au/view.asp?article=9272. 
 
 (4) Keynote Presentation – Invited or Plenary Speaker 
 
Kalam, A., 2009, ‘e-Security: Challenges and Solutions’, International Conference on 
Information and Communication Technologies ICICT2009, IBA, Karachi, Pakistan. 
 
Kalam, A., 2009, ‘Smart Power Grid in the 21st Century: A Collaborative University-
Industry Approach’, UniMAP, Perlis, Malaysia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Electricity Distribution in the deregulated Australian Power Industry’, 
IEEE International Conference on Power and Energy (PECon), UTM, Johor Bahro, 
Malaysia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Conversion of Victorian Overhead Power Lines to Underground Power 
Cables’, IEEE and JCU, Townsville. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Present Day Power System Protection Principles’, The Power Cables & 
Switchgear Conference 2008, IDC Technologies, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Conversion of Overhead Power Lines to Underground Power Cables’, 
The Power Cables & Switchgear Conference 2008,  IDC Technologies. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘High Temperature Superconducting cables’, IEEE (Malaysian 
chapter), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Technical consideration and impact of Underground Cables on Power 
Transmission and Distribution Network’, 2nd International Power Engineering & 
Optimization Conference, PEOCO 2008, UiTM, Shah Alam, Malaysia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2007, ‘Mobile Computing – A New Generation’, International Conference on 
Information and Communication Technologies ICICT2007, IBA, Karachi, Pakistan. 
 

-----
Kalam, A., 2007, ‘Experimental Analysis, Investigations, Testing and Implementation of 
Broadband over Powerlines (BPL) Services for Domestic Customers’, International 
Conference on Information and Communication Technologies ICICT 2007, IBA, 
Karachi, Pakistan. 
 
Kalam, A., 2007, ‘Present Day Protection Principles’, International Conference on 
Electrical & Electronic Engineering ICEE2007, Lahore, Pakistan. 
 
Kalam, A., 2007, ‘Electricity Distribution in the De-regulated Australian Power Industry’, 
International Conference on Electrical & Electronic Engineering ICEE2007, Lahore, 
Pakistan. 
 
Kalam, A., 2006, ‘Cogeneration with implications for the industry and environment’, 
Association for the Advancement of Modelling and Simulation Techniques in 
Enterprises (AMSE), Melbourne, Australia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2005, ‘Cogeneration – win win for industry and environment’, ROVISP 2005: 
International Conference on Robotics, Vision, Information and Signal Processing, 
Penang, Malaysia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2005, ‘Research and education in Telecommunication Engineering’, 1st 
International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies, Karachi, 
Pakistan. 
 
Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Ecogeneration in Australia’, IEEE/Engineers Australia/ITEE Power 
Engineering Research Seminar, Brisbane. 
 
Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Viability of Electricity Cogeneration – win win for industry and 
environment’, AFAS, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 2002, ‘Eco-Generation’, Sustainable Energy Day – 2002, Monash, 
Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 2001, ‘Panel Discussion on Solar Power’, Sustainable Energy Day – 2001, 
Monash, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Distribution Automation’, AUPEC 2000, Brisbane. 
 
Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Concerns in Renewable Energy Area’, Sustainable Energy Day – 2000, 
Monash, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Quality attestation standard of Australian electronic and mechanic 
products and the main requirements of quality attestation and the procedures of applying 
for attestation in Australia’, Australia-Chine Association for International exchange of 
personnel, Irico Hotel, Melbourne, Australia. 
 
Kalam, A., 1995, ‘Development of a decision support system for power system’, IEEE 
Kharagpur Section, India. 
 

-----
Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Role of cogeneration in developing countries’, Eight National Power 
Systems Conference, India. 
 
Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Decision support system in power system protection’, Singapore 
Polytechnic, Singapore. 
 
Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Application of Expert System in Power System Protection’, Jordan 
International Power System Conference, Jordan. 
 
 
(5) Articles 
 
(A) Refereed Journals 
 
Mustafa, M. W., Shareef, H., Khairuddin, A., Kalam, A. and Oo, M.T. 2009, 
‘Implementation of Artificial Neural Network to Allocate Transmission Usage in Bilateral 
Trade Power Market’, International Energy Journal. (Accepted for publication). 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2009, “The Application- View Model of the 
International Standard IEC61850,” IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 24, no. 3, 
pp.1132-1139, July 2009. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2009, “Object Modelling of Data and DataSets in 
the  International Standard IEC 61850,” IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 24, 
no. 3, pp.1140-1147, July 2009. 
 
Khalid, S. N., Mustafa,  M. W., Shareef, H., Khairuddin, A., Abdullah, S. and Kalam, A. 
2009, ‘Real Power Transfer Allocation Method Utilizing Radial Basis Function Network’,  
IREE International Review of Automatic Control  Journal (Theory and Application), 
Volume 2, No. 3, May 2009.  
 
Shareef, H., Mustafa, M. W.,  Khalid, S. N., Khairuddin, A., Kalam, A. and Oo, M.T., 
2008, ‘Real and Reactive Power Transfer Allocation Utilizing Modified Nodal Equations’, 
International Journal of Emerging Electric Power Systems, vol. 9, Issue 6.  
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2008, ‘Development of information-
embedded power system using OPNET”, Australian Journal of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering, vol 4, No. 3, pp. 211-216. 
 
Al Khalidi, H. and Kalam, A., 2007, ‘Savings in Transmission losses using Underground 
Cables Compared to Overhead Lines’, Transactions IEEE Pakistan, vol#57-58, July- Dec 
2007, pp. 25-30. 
 
Fernando, K. J. T. N. and Kalam, A., 2007, ‘Voltage Instability in Power Systems, its 
Analysis and Prediction using Artificial Intelligence Methods’, Transactions IEEE 
Pakistan, vol#57-58, July- Dec 2007, pp. 13-17. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2007, ‘The Real-Time Publisher/Subscriber 
Communication Model for Distributed Substation Systems’, IEEE Transactions on 
Power Delivery, vol. 22, no. 3, ITPDE5, pp. 1411-1423. 

-----
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2007, ‘Power System Communications 
Review: Data Communications Requirement in a Deregulated Environment”, Australian 
Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam A. and Zayegh, A., 2006 “Wide area power system 
monitoring, protection and control,” Association for the Advancement of Modelling and 
Simulation Techniques in Enterprises (AMSE), France. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2006, ‘Design of a Guaranteed Delivery 
Mechanism for the Transmission of GOOSE Messages’, IEEE Short paper.  
 
Kalam, A. and Corhodzic, S., 2005, ‘Performances of Distribution Transformers Installed 
in Metallic Enclosures – An Australian Experience’, IEEE Transactions on Power 
Delivery, volume 20 number 3, ITPDE5, pp. 1970-1975. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A. Kalam and A. Zayegh, 2005, “The effects of computer network on the 
controllability of an information embedded power system,” Journal of Information and 
Communication Technology, Vol. 1, No. 1, (Summer 2005) pp: 29-35, TECNOLOGICS.  
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2005, ‘Information Embedded Power 
System: The effects of ‘larger switched computer network’ on the controllability of power 
system’, Journal of the Australian Institute of Energy, Vol 23, No. 1, pp. 26-28. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Interoperable CORBA Middleware Design 
for substation Communication Systems’, Proceedings of the Eighth IEE International 
Conference on Developments in Power System Protection, Amsterdam, Netherlands, 
Vol. 2, pp. 705-708. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2004, ‘A Review of Substation Automation 
Communications Review Protocols’, IEAust Engineering Journal, Vol.1, No. 1, pp. 51-
65. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘Modeling of Substation Communications 
System using OPNET’, MS’02 best of Book Journal. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘On-Line turning of a fuzzy-logic power system 
stabilizer’, Iranian Journal of Science and Technology, Transaction B (Engineering), 
Vol. 26, No. B4, Autumn 2002, pp. 597-604. 
 
Dragomir, S.S. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘An approximation of the Fourier sine transform via 
Grüss type inequalities and applications for electrical circuits’, Journal of the Korea 
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 33-45. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘An indirect adaptive fuzzy-logic power system 
stabilizer’, International Journal of Electrical Power and Energy Systems, Vol. 24, No. 
10, July 2002, pp. 837-842. 
 

-----
Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Smart Controller for Fault Prediction and Classification 
in Power Systems Protection’, AMSE Journal of Modelling, Measurement and Control, 
Vol. 73 (1), pp. 11-20. 
 
Corhodzic, S. and Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Assessment of distribution transformers using loss 
capitalization formulae’, Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Australia, 
Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 43-48. 
 
Singh, J. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Hybrid overcurrent controller implemented using GaAs 
MESFET technology’, Journal of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, Vol. 19, No. 
1&2, pp. 25-30. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘A Direct Adaptive Fuzzy Power System 
Stabilizer’, IEEE Transaction on Energy Conversion, Vol. 14 (4), pp. 1564-71. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘A Hierarchical Neural Network Adaptive Power System Stabilizer’, 
International Journal of Power and Energy Systems, Vol. 19 (1), pp. 28-33. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Hybrid Overcurrent Controller Implemented Using GaAs MESFET 
Technology’, Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Australia, Vol. 19 (1, 
2), pp. 25-30. 
 
Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Kannangara, C., 1999, ‘Integrated Substation Protection and 
Control for the Electricity Distribution Supply System’, International Journal of Power 
and Energy Systems, Vol. 19 (2), pp. 197-202. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘A Rule-Based Fuzzy Power System Stabilizer 
Tuned by a Neural Network’, IEEE Transaction on Energy Conversion, Vol. 14 (3), pp. 
773-9. 
 
Bhattacharya, K., Kothari, M., Nanda, J., Aldeen, M. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Tuning of 
Power System Stabilizers in Multi-Machine Systems Using FSE Techniques,’ Electric 
Power Systems Research, Vol. 46 (2), pp. 119-31. 
 
Zahedi, A. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Education of Renewable Energy and Environmental 
Technology at Undergraduate Level of Engineering (A Multilevel-Multimedia 
Programme)’, Renewable Energy Journal, pp. 2432-40. 
 
Zahedi, A. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Development of an Appropriate Model for Transferring 
Renewable Energy Technology to Developing Countries’, Renewable Energy Journal, 
pp. 2433-6. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. Kalam, A., 1998, ‘A Hierarchical Neural Network Adaptive Power 
System Stabilizer’, International Journal of Power and Energy Systems, Vol. 18, No. 1, 
pp. 28-33. 
 
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Model of an Intelligent Speed and 
Position Detector for Induction Motor’, AMSE Journal Modelling, Measurement and 
Control, Vol. 82, No. 3, pp. 47-51. 
 

-----
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘A Sensorless Position and Speed 
Detector for Brushless Motor with Wound Rotor’, AMSE Journal Modelling, 
Measurement and Control, Vol. 72, No. 3, pp. 64-69. 
 
Mohapatra, G.R., Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Coulter, R., 1998, ‘Dynamic Voltage Stability 
of Distribution Network with Non-Conventional Energy Sources’, AMSE Journal 
Modelling, Measurement and Control, Vol. 71, No. 1, pp. 16-22. 
 
Zayegh, A., Kalam, A., Singh, J. and Malyniak, R., 1997, ‘Ultrafast Multi-Channel Data 
Acquisition Chip Implemented Using GaAs MESFET Technology’, AMSE Journal of 
Modelling, Measurement and Control, Vol. 68 (1, 2), pp. 21-46. 
 
Gondal, I. and Kalam, A., 1997, ‘Adaptive interference cancellation on power line carrier 
networks’, Journal of the Institution of Engineers (India), Vol. 78, pp. 94-98. 
 
Haque, M.Z., Kalam, A. and Roy, L., 1997, ‘Second Order AC-DC power system state 
estimator’, International Journal of Power and Energy Systems, Vol. 17, Issue 2, April, 
pp. 138-44. 
 
Wong, S.K., Alwast, T., Biasizzo, C. and Kalam, A., 1997, ‘Agents and its application in 
power system protection’, International Journal of Power and Energy Systems, Vol. 17, 
Issue 3, September, pp. 191-197. 
 
Wong, S.K. and Kalam, A., 1997, ‘An agent approach to designing protection systems’, 
IEE DPSP’97, pp. 373-376, Nottingham, UK. 
 
Chen, Z., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1997, ‘Development of multi-curves and hybrid 
characteristics for advanced microprocessor based overcurrent protection’, Journal of the 
Institution of Engineers (India), Vol. 78, pp. 88-93. 
 
Gondal, I., Kalam, A. and Xia, L., 1996, ‘Use of RLS identification for adaptive 
interference cancellation on PLC communication networks’, Journal of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering, Australia, Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 115-121. 
 
Goodridge, A.R. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Stability of 6 MW gas turbines used for 
cogeneration’, Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Australia, Vol. 16, 
No. 1, pp. 81-84. 
 
Kalam, A., Haque, M.H. and Nanda, J., 1996, ‘An Exact Second Order Load Flow Solution 
Under Loading and Ill-Conditioned Network’, International Journal of Power and 
Energy Systems, Vol. 16, Issue 3, September, pp. 151-157. 
 
Taylor, V., Kalam, A., Faulkner, M. and Haydon, J., 1995, ‘Digital Simulation of Fault 
Location on ehv lines using wideband spread spectrum’, IEE Proceedings, Gener. Trans,. 
Distrib., Vol. 142, No. 1, pp. 73-80. 
 
Haque, M.H., Kalam, A. and Khan, M.E., 1995, ‘Determination of critical clearing time 
through evaluation of machine kinetic energy and its derivative’, Journal of Electrical 
and Electronics Engineering, Australia, Vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 343-349. 
 

-----
Das, D., Kothari, D.P. and Kalam, A., 1995, ‘A simple and efficient method for load flow 
solution of radial distribution networks’, International Journal of Electrical Power & 
Energy Systems, Vol. 17, No. 5, pp. 335-347. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Design and implementation of a fuzzy logic 
based power system stabilizer’, AMSE Periodical, Vol. 42, No. 4, pp. 39-52. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Optimisation of fuzzy controllers as a practical 
power system stabilizer’, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 7, No. 
5, pp. 545-558. 
 
Aggarwal, R.K., Coury, D.V., Johns, A.T. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘A practical approach to 
accurate fault location on extra high voltage teed feeders’, IEEE Transactions, Power 
Delivery, Vol. 8, No. 3, pp. 874-883. 
 
Aggarwal, R.K., Coury, D.V., Johns, A.T. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Computer-aided design 
and testing of an accurate fault locater for e.h.v. teed feeders’, IEE DPSP’93, York, UK, 
pp. 315-320. 
 
Kalam, A., na Ranong, C. and Walker, E.K., 1989, ‘Masters Degree by Coursework in 
Electrical and Electronic Engineering – A Review’, Singapore Institute of Engineering 
Technologists, Singapore. 
 
Kalam, A., 1985/ 1986, ‘ Digital Simulation of Series Compensated e.h.v. Transmission 
Lines and their Associated Protection’, Journal of The Institution of Engineers (India), 
Vol. 66, Pt El 3 & 4, pp. 116-121. 
 
Aggarwal, R.K., Johns, A.T. and Kalam, A., 1984, ‘Computer Modelling of Series 
Compensated e.h.v. Transmission Systems’, IEE Proceedings, Vol. 131, Pt. C, No. 5, pp. 
188-196. 
 
Kalam, A., 1984, ‘Simulation Techniques of e.h.v. Lines and Associated Protection’, All 
India Seminar on Protection and Grounding, Institution of Engineers, India. 
 
(B) Conference Papers 
 
(a) 
Refereed Proceedings 
  
Dastgeer, F. and Kalam, A., 2009, “Efficiency Comparison of DC and AC Distribution 
Systems for Distributed Generation”, AUPEC 09, paper number PP065, September 09, 
Adelaide, Australia. 
 
Paracha, Z.J., Mehdi, A.M. and Kalam, A., 2009, “Computational Analysis of Sag and 
Swell in Electrical Power Distribution Network”, AUPEC 09, paper number PP015, 
September 09, Adelaide, Australia. 
 
Mustafa, S.N. Khalid, M.W., Shareef, H., Khairuddin, A., Kalam, A. and Maung Than Oo, 
A., 2009, “Real Power Loss Allocation Using Modified Nodal Equations for Deregulated 
Power System”, AUPEC 09, paper number PP101, September 09, Adelaide, Australia. 
 

-----
Paracha, Z.J. and Kalam, A., 2009, “Power Quality- A Complex and diversified Problem in 
Power Industry”, 3rd International Engineering and Optimization Conference PEOCO2009 
- Power Quality,  pp. 136-139, Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia 
 
Sher, H.A., Qureshi, S.A., Paracha, Z.J., Kalam, A. and Owais, M., 2009, “Economical 
Analysis of a 4KW Stand alone Solar PV Based System for Rural Electrification in 
Pakistan”, 3rd International Engineering and Optimization Conference PEOCO2009 - 
Distributed Generation,  pp. 54-58, Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia 
 
Paracha, Z.J., Kalam, A., Mehdi, A.M. and Amanullah, M.T.O., 2009, “Estimation of 
Power Factor by the Analysis of Power Quality Data for Voltage Unbalance”, 3rd 
International Conference on Electrical Engineering ICEE 2009, UET Lahore Pakistan 
 
Paracha, Z.J., Kalam, A. and Ali, R., 2009, “A Novel Approach of Harmonic Analysis in 
Power Distribution Networks using Artificial Intelligence”, 3rd International Conference on 
Information and Communication Technologies ICICT 2009 - Artificial Intelligence II, pp. 
157-160, Karachi Pakistan 
 
Fernando, K.J.T.N. and Kalam A., 2008, “Voltage Instability in Power Systems and the use 
of Artificial Intelligence Methods for Its Prediction”, AUPEC 08, 4B - Power System 
Dynamics, Operation, Planning, Optimisation, 14-17 December 08, Sydney, Australia. 
 
Hadbah, A., Kalam A. and Al-Khalidi H., 2008, “The Subsequent Security Problems 
Attributable to Increasing Interconnectivity of SCADA Systems”, AUPEC 08, 5C – Power 
System Protection, Control, Communications, 14-17 December 08, Sydney, Australia. 
 
Ozansoy, C.R. and Kalam A., 2008, “Time Synchronisation in an IEC 61850 Based 
Substation Automation System”, AUPEC 08, 5C – Power System Protection, Control, 
Communications, 14-17 December 08, Sydney, Australia. 
 
Khalid, S.N., Mustafa, M.W., Shareef, H., Khairuddin, A., Kalam, A. and Maung Than Oo, 
A., 2008, “A Novel Reactive Power Transfer Allocation Method with the Application of 
Artificial Neural Network”, AUPEC 08, 3D - Modelling, Mathematical Techniques, 
Intelligent Systems, 14-17 December 08, Sydney, Australia. 
 
Al Khalidi, H.. and Kalam A., 2008, “Reduction in Sub-transmission Loss Using 
Underground Power Cables ”, AUPEC 08, 6C – Transmission, Distribution, Micro-Grids, 
14-17 December 08, Sydney, Australia. 
 
Mohapatra, G.R. and Kalam A., 2008, “Dynamic Stability Analysis of Renewable Energy 
Sources Interconnected to the Distribution Networks”, AUPEC 08, 6D – Renewable 
Energy, Energy Storage, 14-17 December 08, Sydney, Australia. 
 
Kalam, A., Maung Than Oo, A. and Zayegh, A., 2007, “Intelligent Control, Monitor and 
Protection of Power System”, Reference 28, South East Asia Protection & Automation 
Conference (SEPAC 2007), 14–15 August 07, Sydney, Australia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam A and Zayegh, A., 2006, “Performance Analysis of Power 
System Communication Protocols for an Information Embedded Power System,” Oman, 

-----
International Conference on Communication, Computer and Power, ICCCP'07, Session 3 
Power Systems Operation – I, February 19 to 21, 2007, pp. 44-49, Sultanate of Oman.   
 
Nahas, A. and Kalam A., 2006 “Automation of Electrical Test Procedures for low voltage 
cables,” AUPEC 06, TS6 – High Voltage Engineering 1, 10-13 December 06, Melbourne, 
Australia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam A. and Zayegh, A., 2006 “Development of information 
embedded power system using OPNET”, AUPEC 06, TS2 - Power Systems Modeling 1, 
10-13 December 06, Melbourne, Australia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Md Mainuddin, Md Safayat, H., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2006, 
“Development Of Real Life Power System Communication And Protection Laboratory At 
Victoria University,” AUPEC 06, TS20 - Power Systems Modeling 3, 10-13 December 06, 
Melbourne, Australia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam A. and Zayegh, A., 2006, “Experimental Investigations Of 
DNP3 Protocol For An Information Embeeded Power Sysetm,” IASTED, Session 4 – 
Modeling power systems, demand response and end use, and tariff issues, PES 2007, USA.  
 
Fernando, K. J. T. N. and Kalam A., 2006, "Mathematics of Voltage Instability in Power 
Systems", AUPEC 2006, TS9 - Power System Stability, December 10-19, 2006, 
Melbourne, Australia. 
 
Nanda, J., Parida, M. and Kalam, A., 2006 "Automatic generation control of a multi-area 
power system with conventional integral controllers" AUPEC 2006, TS13 - Load and 
Frequency Control 2, December 10-19, 2006, Melbourne, Australia. 
 
Al-Khalidi, H and Kalam, A., 2006 “The Impact of Underground Cables on Power 
Transmission and Distribution Networks” PECon 2006, 28-29 November 2006, pp. 575-
579, Putra Jaya, Malaysia. 
 
Al-Khalidi, H., Kalam, A. and Maung Than Oo, 2006, “Investigation of aging devices in 
power network”, AUPEC 2006, TS4 - Distribution, Planning and Operation, December 10-
19, 2006, Melbourne, Australia. 
 
Kalam, A., Al Khalidi, H. and Willen, D., 2006, “HTS cable and its anticipated effects on 
power transmission networks” 8th International IEE Conference on AC and DC Power 
Transmission, Session 3: New Developments in Technologies & Transmission Systems I, 
28-31 March 2006, pp. 50-53, London, United Kingdom. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2006, “Intelligent control and protection 
of power system with IEPS-W,” 8th International IEE Conference on AC and DC 
Power Transmission, Session 3: New Developments in Technologies & Transmission 
Systems I, 28-31 March 2006, pp. 54-57, London, United Kingdom. 
 
Orlowski, R. and Kalam, A., 2005, ‘Power Systems Communications challenges in a 
privatised environment, Proceedings of the CIGRE Study Committee B5, 8-16 
September 2005 Colloquium, Paper No. 202, Calgary, Canada. 
 

-----
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2005, ‘Communication in power system: 
Time to use information embedded power system in developing countries for efficient 
transmission of power system data’, ROVISP 2005: International Conference on 
Robotics, Vision, Information and Signal Processing, 20-22 July 2005, pp: 318-321, 
Penang, Malaysia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2005, ‘Network Security Vulnerabilities 
in SCADA and EMS’, 2005 IEEE/PES Transmission and Distribution Conference & 
Exhibition: Asia and Pacific, Paper ID: T & D F0459, August 14-18,0-7803-9114-4/05/, 
2005, Dalian, China 
 
Mahajan, M.M., Maung Than Oo, A. and Kalam, A., 2005, ‘Soft start and solid state speed 
control of a D.C. shunt drive’, ROVISP 2005: International Conference on Robotics, 
Vision, Information and Signal Processing, 20-22 July 2005, pp. 196-199, Penang, 
Malaysia. 
 
Al Khalidi, H and Kalam, A. 2005, ‘Enhancing reliability of power transmission and 
distribution networks with underground cables’ Australasian Universities Power 
Engineering Conference, AUPEC 05, 25th - 28th September 2005, pp: 165-169, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia 
 
Mukul M. Mahajan and Kalam, A., 2005,  ‘Economic analysis of Fuel cells for domestic 
applications in Australia,’ Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference, 
AUPEC 05, 25th - 28th September 2005, pp: 251-255, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam A. and Zayegh, A., 2005, “Network Security Vulnerabilities in 
SCADA and EMS,’ 2005 IEEE/PES Transmission and Distribution Conference & 
Exhibition: Asia and Pacific, Paper ID: T & D F0459, August 14-18, 2005, Dalian, 
China.  
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2005, ‘Power system communication 
laboratory,” Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference, AUPEC 05, 
25th - 28th September 2005, pp: 552-555, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam A. and Zayegh, A., 2005, ‘Experimental analysis and 
modeling of an information embedded power system,’ Australasian Universities Power 
Engineering Conference, AUPEC 05, 25th - 28th September 2005, pp: 431-435, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia.  
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2005, ‘Wide area power system 
monitoring, protection and control,’ International Conference on Modeling and 
Simulation Marrakesh, Morocco, 22- 24 November 2005. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2005,  ‘Fiber Optic Network Infrastructure 
as next generation power system communications’, The 6th Jordanian International 
Electrical & Electronics Engineering Conference, JIEEEEC 2005, November 15-17, 
2005,Amman, Jordan.  
 
Maung Than Oo, A., A. Kalam and A. Zayegh, 2005, ‘Communication in power system: 
Time to use information embedded power system in developing countries for efficient 
transmission of power system data,’ ROVISP 2005: International Conference on 

-----
Robotics, Vision, Information and Signal processing, 20-22 July 2005, pp: 318-321, 
Penang, Malaysia.  
 
Mukul M Mahajan, Maung Than Oo, A., and Kalam, A., 2005, ‘Soft start and solid state 
speed control of a D.C. shunt drive,’ ROVISP 2005: International Conference on 
Robotics, Vision, Information and Signal Processing, 20-22 July 2005, Penang, 
Malaysia. 
 
Singh, J., Stojcevski, A., Kalam, A. and Veljankovski, R., 2005, ‘European Union – 
Australia Corporation in Postgraduate Education’, iCEER Conference. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2004, ‘Information embedded power 
system: the effective communication system of the 21st century power system industry’, 
Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference, AUPEC 04, Paper ID: 88, 
Brisbane, Australia. 
 
Maung Than Oo, A., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2004, ‘Effective power system 
communication requirements for deregulated power industry’, IEEE Asia-Pacific 
conference on Circuits and systems, APCCAS 04, Volume 2, pp. 653-656 Tainan, 
Taiwan. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Design of a Protection Relay Incorporating 
UCA2/CORBA Communications’, Proceedings of the MS’2004, Lyon, France, pp. 4.17-
4.18. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Standard Interoperable Middleware Design 
for Substation Communication Systems’, Australasian Universities Power Engineering 
Conference, AUPEC’04, Paper ID: 76, Brisbane, Australia. 
 
Pentland, P. and Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Partnership between Museums, Universities and 
Business: Turning a $2m White Elephant into a Museum Display, a University Lecture 
Theatre, a Research Facility and a Testing Place (Laboratory) for Industry’, Museums 
Australia National Conference, Paper No. 21. 
 
Mahajan, M.M., Maung Than Oo, A. and Kalam, A., 2004, ‘Renewable Hydrogen Based 
Distributed Power Generation Systems’, ICECE 2004, Dhaka, Bangladesh, Paper No. 
F019. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘The Blackouts of the Power Grid of North 
America’, IASTED Powercon 2003 – Blackout, pp. 81-86. 
 
Corhodzic, S. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘Development of universal step-up transformer for 
Tasmanian power stations’, Distribution 2003, Adelaide. 
 
Orlowski, R. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘Communications considerations for automation 
schemes in existing Zone substations’, Proceedings of the CIGRE Study Committee B5, 
2003 Colloquium, Sydney, Australia, Preferential subject 1, Paper No. 101. 
 

-----
Orlowski, R. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘Applications of reclosers on Urban Distribution 
Networks’, Proceedings of the 7th International Energy Transmission & Distribution 
Conference & Exhibition – Distribution 2003, Adelaide, Australia, Paper No. 170. 
 
Singh, J., Kalam, A., Zayegh, A., Beckett, P. and Ismail, L., 2003, ‘Chipskills program: a 
unique partnership between University and Government’, ICEE, Spain 2003. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘CORBA Middleware Design for Protection 
and Control Applications’, Proceedings of the third IASTED International Conference 
on Power and Energy Systems, Marbella, Spain, Paper No. 409-190. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘Modelling and Simulations of CORBA 
invocations using OPNET Modeller’, Proceedings of the 5th Jordanian International 
Electrical and Electronics Conference, Amman, Jordan, pp. 227-231. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘Substation Communications System 
Modelling Using OPNET’, Proceedings of the 2003 Mediterranean Conference on 
Modelling and Simulation, Reggio Calabria, Italy, Paper No. 6. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2003, ‘Modelling of a Network Data Delivery 
Service Middleware for Substation Communication Systems using OPNET’, AUPEC’03, 
Christchurch, New Zealand, Paper no. 91. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘The Use of Load Flow Algorithms for 
Modelling a Zone Substation STATCOM’, Proceedings of the IASTED International 
Conference, Crete, Greece, pp. 364-369. 
 
Ozansoy, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘Modelling of a Substation 
Communications System Using OPNET’, Proceedings of the 4th International Modelling 
and Simulation Conference, Melbourne, Australia, pp. 255-260. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘Performance of a Self-tuned Fuzzy-logic PSS in a 
Multimachine System’, Proceedings of Australasian Universities Power Engineering 
Conference (AUPEC’02), Melbourne, Australia, Paper #63. 
 
Ozansoy, C.R., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2002, ‘Communications for Substation 
Automation and Integration’, Proceedings of Australasian Universities Power 
Engineering Conference (AUPEC’02), Melbourne, Australia, Paper #122. 
 
Mijatovic, V., Coulter, R., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2001, ‘Voltage Dip Calculations 
Using Spreadsheets’, Proceedings of Australasian Universities Power Engineering 
Conference (AUPEC’01), Perth, Australia, pp. 366-71. 
 
Ozansoy, C.R., Coulter, R., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2001, ‘Modelling of a Zone 
Substation STATCOM using Load Flow Algorithms’, Proceedings of Australasian 
Universities Power Engineering Conference (AUPEC’01), Perth, Australia, pp. 583-90. 
 
Zayegh, A., Kannangara, S. and Kalam, A., 2001, ‘Low cost, general purpose SCADA 
system for Process Control’, Proceedings of the 4th Jordanian International Electrical 
& Electronics Engineering Conference, Amman, Jordan, pp. 383-8. 

-----
 
Zayegh, A, Kalam, A. and Mahdavian, H., 2001, ‘Sizing of a Motor for Domestic 
Applications’, Proceedings of the 4th Jordanian International Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering Conference, Amman, Jordan, pp. 237-40. 
 
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Model of a High Frequency Transformer 
for Contact-less Power Conversion for Motor Applications”, Proceedings of the IASTED 
International Conference on Power and Energy Systems, Calgary, Canada, pp. 313-6. 
 
Corhodzic, S. and Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Analysis of loss capitalization formulae used for 
assessment of Australian distribution transformers’, IEEE/PowerCon 2000, Perth, 
Australia. 
 
Mohapatra, R., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 2000, ‘Analysis of the Distribution Networks 
Voltage Control with Renewable Energy Sources’, Proceedings of MS 2000 International 
Conference on Modelling and Simulation, La Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain, pp. 999-
05. 
 
Kalam, A. and Corhodzic, S., 2000, ‘Loading of Oil-immersed Distribution Transformers 
Installed in Padmounted Kiosk Substations’, Proceedings, First International Power & 
Energy Conference, Churchill, Victoria, pp. 505-12. 
 
Zahedi, A. and Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Balancing Cost and Performance in a PV/ wind/ battery 
Hybrid Power System’, Proceedings of Australasian Universities Power Engineering 
Conference (AUPEC’00), Brisbane, Australia, pp. 284-8. 
 
Zahedi, A and Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Important Role of Government in Developing Renewable 
Energy in Australia’, Proceedings of Australasian Universities Power Engineering 
Conference (AUPEC’00), Brisbane, Australia, pp. 280-3. 
 
Coulter, R., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 2000, ‘Privatisation in the Asia Pacific Region, the 
Electricity Supply Industry in Victoria, Australia’, Proceedings of the Symposium on 
Electricity Distribution in the Developing Countries, New Delhi, India, pp. 34-7. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Analysis and Application of Transferring Power with a Transformer 
with a High Leakage Inductance’, Proceedings of International Conference on 
Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Bursa, Turkey, pp. 64-7. 
 
Corhodzic, S. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Assessment of Distribution Transformers Using Loss 
Capitalization Formulae’, Proceedings of Australasian Universities Power Engineering 
Conference (AUPEC’99), Darwin, Australia, pp. 409-14. 
 
Orlowski, R. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Fault Detection and Location on Distribution Feeders 
(22kV/11kV)’, 
Proceedings 
of 
Australasian 
Universities 
Power 
Engineering 
Conference (AUPEC’99), Darwin, Australia, pp. 168-72. 
 
Singh, J. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘High Speed Multi-channel Multi-function Micro Chip 
Controller’, Proceedings of the 2nd IASTED International Conference on Control and 
Application, Calgary, Canada, pp. 373-7. 
 

-----
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Model Analysis of the Distribution Network Control with Renewable 
Energy Sources’, Proceedings of International Conference on Modelling and 
Simulation, Compastela, Spain, pp. 281-6. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Power Electronics Unit with Grid Interactive Facility’, Proceedings of 
International Conference on Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Bursa, Turkey, 
pp. 68-71. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Protection Engineering Using Agent Technology’, Proceedings of the 
3rd IASTED Conference on Power and Energy Systems, Anaheim, USA, pp. 449-54. 
 
Zahedi, A and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Utilities Role in Developing Renewable Energies in 
Australia’, Proceedings of Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference 
(AUPEC’99), Darwin, Australia, pp. 293-7. 
 
Zayegh, A., Singh, J., Kalam, A. and Malyniak, R., 1999, ‘VLSI Implementation of 
Advanced Digital Relay for Power System Protection’, Proceedings of International 
Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Santiago de Compoastela, Spain, pp. 455-60. 
 
Ghobrial, K. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘PV Pilot Project to be adopted for domestic use’, 
Domestic Use of Electrical Energy Conference 1999, Cape Town, South Africa, pp. 196-
201. 
 
Kalam, A. and Corhodzic, S., 1998, ‘Loading of Oil-Immersed Distribution Transformers 
installed in Padmounted Kiosk Substations’, Proceedings of the International Power and 
Energy Conference, INT-PEC, Melbourne, Australia, pp. 505-12. 
 
Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Artificial Intelligence for Assessing Power System Protection 
Performance’, Proceedings of ICCCP’98, Muscat, Oman, pp. 249-54. 
 
Koyanagi, F., Kalam, A. and Uriu, Y., 1998, ‘Optimizing of Mixed Energy System for 
Developing Countries Using the Analogy of Ecosystem’, Proceedings of 33rd Universities 
Power Engineering Conference, Edinburgh, UK, pp. 859-62. 
 
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Model of an Intelligent Speed and 
Position Detector for a Brushless Motor with Wound Rotor’, Proceedings of the 
Contribution of Cognition to Modelling Conference CCM’98, Lyon, France, pp. 13.36-
13.39. 
 
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘A Novel Motor for Constant Power 
Industrial and Domestic Applications’, Proceedings of Jordan International Electrical 
and Electronic Engineering Conference, JIEEEC’98, Amman, Jordan, pp. 96-100. 
 
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Requirements of Power Transfer to 
Rotor in a Brushless Motor with Wound Rotor’, Proceedings of the 1998 International 
Conference on Communication, Computer and Power ICCCP’09, Muscat, Oman, pp. 
147-50. 
 
Mohapatra, R., Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Coulter, R., 1998, ‘Transient Stability Analysis 
of Renewable Energy Sources Interconnected to the Distribution Network’, Proceedings of 

-----
Jordan International Electrical and Electronic Engineering Conference, JIEEE’98, 
Amman, Jordan, pp. 283-7. 
 
Singh, J. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Hybrid Overcurrent Controller Implemented Using GaAs 
MESFET Technology’, Proceedings of AUPEC/ EECON’98, Hobart, Australia, pp. 25-
30. 
 
Singh, J., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 1998, ‘GaAs VLSI Implementation of an Intelligent 
Relay’, Proceedings of Jordan International Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
Conference JIEEEC’98, Amman, Jordan, pp. 324-9. 
 
Singh, J., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Dynamic Design Methodology for Integrated 
Circuits’, Proceedings of Jordan International Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
Conference, JIEEEC’98, Amman, Jordan, pp. 267-72. 
 
Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Smart Controller for Fault Diagnostics and 
Classification in Power Systems Protection’, Proceedings of the Contribution of 
Cognition to Modelling Conference CCM’98, Lyon, France, pp. 1416-19. 
 
Singh, J., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 1997, ‘GaAs VLSI implementation of intelligent 
relay’, IEEE Conference in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Jordan, pp. 324-329. 
 
Singh, J., Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Malyniak, R., 1997, ‘Multi-function overcurrent relay 
implemented using E-D GaAs MESFETs’, Universities Power Engineering Conference, 
Manchester, UK, pp. 699-702. 
 
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1997, ‘Model of a Sensorless Position Detector 
for Brushless Motor’, Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Modelling 
and Simulation, Melbourne, Australia, pp. 311-16. 
 
Mohaptra, G., Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Coulter, R., 1997, ‘Dynamic Stability Analysis 
of Renewable Energy Sources Interconnected to the Distribution Network’, Proceedings of 
the Third International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, 
Australia, pp. 327-30. 
 
Mohaptra, G., Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Coulter, R., 1997, ‘Voltage Stability Analysis of 
Renewable Energy Sources Interconnected to the Distribution Networks’, Proceedings of 
the Third International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, 
Australia, pp. 317-22. 
 
Singh, J., Malyniak, R., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 1997, ‘Design Methodology and 
Performance Estimation for GaAs MESFET Logic’, 7th International Symposium on IC 
Technology, Systems and Applications, Singapore, pp. 410-3. 
 
Singh, J., Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Malyniak, R., 1997, ‘New Design Approach for 
Ultrafast GaAs Analog to Digital Converter’, 7th International Symposium on IC 
Technology Systems and Applications, Singapore, pp. 672-5. 
 
Singh, J., Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Malyniak, R., 1997, ‘Design Implementation and 
Performance of a Multi-Channel Data Acquisition Chip’, Proceedings of the Third 

-----
International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, Australia, pp. 258-
63. 
 
Singh, J., Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Malyniak, R., 1997, ‘GaAs VLSI Implementation of a 
Polynomial Evaluator Chip’, Proceedings of the Third International Conference on 
Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, Australia, pp. 252-7. 
 
Zayegh, A., Singh, J., Kalam, A. and Malyniak, R., 1997, ‘Low Power Ultrafast Analog to 
Digital Converter Implemented Using GaAs MESFETS’, Third International Conference 
on Electronic Measurement and Instruments Conference Proceeding, Beijing, China, 
pp. 430-3. 
 
Zayegh, A., Akil, M.S. and Kalam, A., 1997, ‘Intelligent relay for fault diagnostics in 
power systems’, Proceedings of the Conference on Intelligent Applications in 
Communication and Power Systems, Al-Ain, UAE, pp. 243-247. 
 
Chen, Z., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘A Developed Multi-curves and Hybrid 
Characteristics for Overcurrent Protection’, Proceedings of the International Conference 
on Electrical Engineering, Beijing, China, Vol. 2, pp. 1110-1114. 
 
Chen, Z., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Intelligent Relay for Substation Protection 
System’, Proceedings of The International Iranian Conference on Electrical 
Engineering, Tehran, Iran, Vol. 3, pp. 303-309. 
 
Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Kannangara, C., 1996, ‘Low Cost Implementation of an 
Integrated Substation Protection and Control System’, Proceedings of The Second 
Jordanian Conference on Electrical Engineering, Mu’tah, Jordan, pp. 258-264. 
 
Al-Dabbagh, M., Moorthy, S., Ravishankar, J., Vawser, M., Hoadley, D., Kalam, A. and 
Coulter, R., 1996, ‘Power system performance with the interconnection of renewable 
energy sources and co-generation systems’, Proceedings of the World Renewable 
Energy IV Congress, Denver, Colorado, USA, Vol. 3, pp. 2131-2134. 
 
Zayegh, A., Chen, Z. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Intelligent embedded microprocessor system 
for fault classification in power system protection’, Proceedings of the IASTED 
International Conference Robotics and Manufacturing, Hawaii, pp. 333-336. 
 
Kalam, A., Zayegh, A., Malyniak, R. and Singh, J., 1996, ‘VLSI implementation of high 
speed multi-function multi-protection relay for power protection’, AUPEC’96, Vol. 2, pp. 
417-422. 
 
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, J. and Muttucumaru, R., 1996, ‘Load Shedding algorithm for 
industrial cogeneration plant’, AUPEC’96, Melbourne, Vol. 1, pp. 19-23. 
 
Mohapatra, G.R., Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Coulter, R., 1996, ‘Modern Concepts of 
integrated protection and control of distribution network with non-conventional sources’, 
AUPEC’96, Melbourne, Vol. 2, pp. 313-318. 
 

-----
Kalam, A., Zayegh, A., Nayak, R. and Mohapatra, G.R., 1996, ‘A rationalization of control 
strategy for natural gas fired heat exchangers’, AUPEC’96, Melbourne, Vol. 22, pp. 319-
322. 
 
Haque, M.Z. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Novel decoupled ac-dc state estimator’, AUPEC’96, 
Melbourne, Vol. 3, pp. 599-604. 
 
Gondal, I. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Application of artificial neural network for adaptive 
interference cancellation on power line carrier networks’, AUPEC’96, Melbourne, Vol. 3, 
pp. 643-647. 
 
Burrowes, G., Hiskens, I. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Sensitivity of voltage collapse to battery 
storage plant (BSP) location and control’, AUPEC’96, Melbourne, Vol. 1, pp. 181-185. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N., Kalam, A. and Lee, W.S., 1996, ‘An adaptive power system stabilizer 
using neural networks’, AUPEC’96, Melbourne, Vol. 3, pp. 605-609. 
 
Haque, M.Z. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Exact decoupled second order ac-dc state estimator’, 
11th CEPSI, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Vol. 3, pp. 134-143. 
 
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, J. and Muttucumaru, R., 1996, ‘A genetic algorithm approach for 
load shedding in an industrial cogeneration power plant’, IECON’96, Taipei, Taiwan, pp. 
848-851. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘A neuro-fuzzy power system stabilizer’, 
IECON’96, Taipei, Taiwan, pp. 608-613. 
 
Mohapatra, G.R., Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Coulter, R., 1996, ‘Mathematical modelling 
of distribution network with non-conventional sources, energy storage and power electronic 
devices’, UPEC’96, Crete, Greece, Vol. 1, pp. 155-158. 
 
Burrowes, G., Hiskens, I.A. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Power flow modelling of battery energy 
storage systems connected to the electrical network’, UPEC’96, Crete, Greece, Vol. 1, pp. 
82-85. 
 
Wong, S.K. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Intelligent power system protection using agent 
technology’, UPEC’96, Crete, Greece, Vol. 3, pp. 858-861. 
 
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, J. and Muttucumaru, R., 1996, ‘Load shedding strategy using 
genetic algorithm approach’, UPEC’96, Crete, Greece, Vol. 3, pp. 1055-1057. 
 
Gondal, I. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Simulation of adaptive interference cancellation schemes 
for power line carrier systems’, UPEC’96, Crete, Greece, Vol. 3, pp. 1065-1068. 
 
Haque, M.Z. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘A comparative study of first and second order ac-dc 
state estimator’, UPEC’96, Crete, Greece, Vol. 2, pp. 578-581. 
 
Gondal, I, Kalam, A. and Xia, L., 1996, ‘Application of MATLAB for adaptive 
interference cancellation for power line carrier systems’, The 1996 Australian MATLAB 
Conference, Melbourne, Signal Processing, pp. 27-31. 

-----
 
Gondal, I. Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Speed control of an electric motor using SIMULINK and 
fuzzy logic toolboxes of MATLAB’, The 1996 MATLAB Conference, Melbourne, Fuzzy 
Logic, pp. 7-11. 
 
Wong, S.K. and Kalam, A., 1996, ‘Distributed intelligent power system protection using 
case based and object oriented paradigms’, Proceedings of the International Conference 
on Intelligent Systems Applications to POWER SYSTEMS – ISAP’96, Orlando, USA, 
pp. 74-78. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N., Kalam, A. and Lee, W.S., 1996, ‘Tuning fuzzy logic power system 
stabilizer using neural networks’, Proceedings of the first International Discourse on 
Fuzzy Logic and the Management of Complexity – FLAMOC’96, Sydney, Vol. 2, 
Control Systems: Theory and Industrial Applications, pp. 201-205. 
 
Gondal, I., Kalam, A. and Xia, L., 1995, ‘Application of Modal Analysis for the studies of 
different coupling schemes on laboratory model of power line’, IPEC’95, Singapore, pp. 
23-28. 
 
Kannangara, C., Kalam, A. and Zaygeh, A., 1995, ‘Integrated Substation Digital Protection 
and Control – A General Purpose Low Cost Solution’, IPEC’95, Singapore, pp. 419-424. 
 
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, J. and Muttucumaru, R.L., 1995, ‘Assessing implications and 
solving issues of concern in the interconnection of domestic cogeneration plant to utility’s 
distribution’, Domestic Use of Electrical Energy, South Africa, pp. 162-166. 
 
Wong, S.K., Kalam, A. and Leung, C.H.C., 1995, ‘Incorporating distributed problem 
solving technique into a case-based system’, Industrial and Engineering Applications of 
Artificial Intelligence and Expert Systems, DSTO Melbourne, pp. 9-16. 
 
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, K., Muttucumaru, R.L., Coulter, R.J. and Al-Dabbagh, M., 1995, 
‘Assessing implications and solving issues of concern in the interconnection of industrial 
cogeneration plant to utility’s distribution system’, Workshop on Quality of Supply, 
Proceedings of the ESAA and University of Wollongong, Wollongong, pp. 58-62. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N, Kalam, A. and Lee, W.S., 1995, ‘A fuzzy logic based power system 
stabilizer for a synchronous generator’, Electrical Energy Conference 1995, Adelaide, pp. 
176-181. 
 
Wong, S.K. and Kalam, A., 1995, ‘Development of a power protection system using an 
agent based architecture’, 1995 International Conference on Energy Management and 
Power Delivery, Singapore, pp. 433-438. 
 
Chen, Z., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 1995, ‘Advanced microprocessor based protection 
using artificial neural network techniques’, 1995 International Conference on Energy 
Management and Power Delivery, Singapore, pp. 439-444. 
 
Hosseinzadeh, N., Kalam, A. and Lee, W.S., 1995, ‘A comparison study between a 
conventional and a fuzzy logic based power system stabilizer for a synchronous generator’, 
10th International Power System Conference, Tehran, pp. 183-191. 

-----
 
Chen, Z., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Advanced Microprocessor Based Multi-Digital 
Protective Relaying’, ICPST’94, China, pp. 1110-1114. 
 
Wong, S.K., Kalam, A. and Klebanowski, A., 1994, ‘A decision-support system using 
case-based reasoning in power system protection’, AUPEC’94, University of South 
Australia, pp. 628-687. 
 
Rodrigo, R., Chen, Z., Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 1994, ‘Digital synthesis of test 
waveforms for monitoring & testing response of power system protection equipment’, 
AUPEC’94, University of South Australia, pp. 367-372. 
 
Chen, Z., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Intelligent Relay for Substation Protection 
System’, AUPEC’94, University of South Australia, pp. 387-392. 
 
Kannangara, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Local Area Network Based Low Cost 
Integrated Substation Protection and Control System’, EE Congress ’94, Sydney, pp. 101-
105. 
 
Wong, S.K. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Development of a decision-support for power system 
protection system design, analysis and assessment’, UPEC’94, Ireland, pp. 39-42. 
 
Kannangara, C., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Third Generation General Purpose Data 
Acquisition & Control System Based Integrated Substation Protection and Control’, 
AUPEC’94, University of South Australia, pp. 439-444. 
 
Al-Dabbagh, L. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Transient Waveform Analysis on Transmission 
Line’, EE Congress ’94, Sydney, pp. 177-184. 
 
Al-Dabbagh, L. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Analysis of Power System Wave forms Under 
Transient Conditions Using Digital Computers’, 8th National Power Systems Conference, 
India, pp. 385-393. 
 
Gondal, I., Kalam, A. and Xia, L., 1994, ‘Application of MATLAB for simulation of power 
line carrier communication systems’, AUPEC’94, University of South Australia, pp. 658-
663. 
 
Gondal, I., Kalam, A. and Xia, L., 1994, ‘Adaptive Interference Cancellation for Data 
Communication on Power Systems’, 8th National Power Systems Conference, India, pp. 
394-398. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Optimisation of a Fuzzy Logic Controller and a 
Fuzzy Logic Based Power System Stabiliser’, AUPEC’94, University of South Australia, 
pp. 473-478. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H., Kalam, A. and Nanda, J., 1994, ‘Optimisation and Implementation of 
a Fuzzy Logic Based Power System Stabiliser’, 8th National Power Systems Conference, 
India, pp. 416-420. 
 

-----
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, J., Muttucumaru, R., Coulter, R. and Al-Dabbagh, M., 1994, 
‘Scenario due to introduction of industrial cogeneration plant into utility’s power 
distribution system’, EE Congress ’94, Sydney, pp. 135-139. 
 
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, J., Muttucumaru, R., Coulter, R. and Al-Dabbagh, M., 1994, 
‘Evaluation impacts and solving problem areas in the interconnection of industrial 
cogeneration plant to the utility grid’, AUPEC’94, University of South Australia, pp. 597-
602. 
 
Kalam, A., Chakrabarti, J., Muttucumaru, R., Coulter, R. and Al-Dabbagh, M., 1994, ‘An 
analysis of common problems associated with interfacing of a private generation plant to 
utility’s distribution system’, 8th National Power Systems Conference, India, pp. 461-
465. 
 
Haque, M.Z. and Kalam, A., 1994, ‘Exact Decoupled Second Order AC-DC Load Flow 
Solution Under Loading and Ill-Conditioned Network’, AUPEC’94, University of South 
Australia, pp. 603-608. 
 
Kalam, A. and Negnevitsky, M., 1993, ‘Knowledge Based Approach to Clearing Overloads 
on the Power System Plant’, Second International Conference on Modelling and 
Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 355-364. 
 
Kalam, A. and Negnevitsky, M., 1993, ‘Modelling of Homeostatic Approach to the Power 
System Control in Emergency Conditions’, Second International Conference on 
Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 717-724. 
 
Kalam, A., Negnevitsky, M. and Kalentionok, E., 1993, ‘Experience in the Development of 
Antifail Training Simulator for Power System Controllers’, Second International 
Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 409-418. 
 
Al-Dabbagh, L. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Accurate Algorithm for Modelling Transmission 
Line Parameters’, Second International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, 
Melbourne, pp. 335-342. 
 
Kalam, A. and Gondal, I., 1993, ‘Simulation of Phase to Ground Coupling using Modal 
Analysis’, Second International Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, 
pp. 277-286. 
 
Negnevitski, M. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Operative Monitoring of Distribution Networks by 
Fault Condition Data’, IEE APSCOM-93, Hong Kong, pp. 554.558. 
 
Negnevitski, M. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Development of a Training Simulator for Power 
Restoration Drills’, IEE APSCOM-93, Hong Kong, pp. 633-638. 
 
Kalam, A.and Haque, M.Z., 1993, ‘A new version of exact decoupled second order AC-DC 
load flow in rectangular coordinates’, IEE APSCOM-93, Hong Kong, pp. 262-267. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Design and implementation of a PC-based 
automatic voltage regulator and fuzzy logic power system stabilizer’, IEE APSCOM-93, 
Hong Kong, pp. 293-298. 

-----
 
Haque, M.Z., and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘A Comparative Study of AC-DC Load Flow with the 
Development of a new algorithm’, Second International Conference on Modelling and 
Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 365-374. 
 
Haque, M.Z., and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Second Order Dynamic State Estimation Using 
Cartesian Coordinate Algorithm’, Second International Conference on Modelling and 
Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 707-716. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Simulation Study and Application of Fuzzy Logic 
Controller for Power System Stabilization’, Second International Conference on 
Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 725-734. 
 
Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Kannangara, C., 1993, ‘Model of an Integrated Substation 
Protection and Control System’, Second International Conference on Modelling and 
Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 735-740. 
 
Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Chen, Z., 1993, ’32-Bit Microprocessor Adaptive Techniques to 
Simulate Multi-Digital Protection Schemes’, Second International Conference on 
Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 287-296. 
 
Kalam, A., Chen, Z., Shi, J. and Li, H.M., 1993, ‘Computer Modelling of a PC Based AVR 
and Stabiliser for a Synchronous Generator’, Second International Conference on 
Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 679-688. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Design and Implementation of a Fuzzy Logic 
Controller for Power System Stabilisation’, 2nd IEEE Conference on Control 
Applications, Canada, pp. 61-67. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Application of Fuzzy Logic Controller for 
Power System Stabilization’, IEEE Region 10 Conference, TENCON’93, China, pp. 200-
204. 
 
Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Chen, Z., 1993, ‘Advanced Microprocessor Techniques to 
Simulate Overcurrent and Differential Protection System’, IEE JIPSC’93, Jordan, pp. 182-
187. 
 
Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Techniques for Accurately Locating Faults on EHV Teed feeder’, IEE 
JIPSC’93, Jordan, pp. 166-171. 
 
Al-Dabbagh, L. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Accurate fault location algorithm of extra high 
voltage transmission lines of modern power system’, IEE JUPSC’93, Jordan, pp. 172-175. 
 
Chen, Z., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Advanced Microprocessor Based Multi-Digital 
Protection Schemes’, Distribution 2000 Conference, Sydney, pp. 115-120. 
 
Kalam, A., Zayegh, A. and Chen, Z., 1993, ‘New Approach to implement multi-protection 
scheme in Distribution System based on third generation microprocessor’, AUPEC’93, 
University of Wollongong, pp. 355-360. 
 

-----
Kalam, A.,, Zayegh, A. and Kannangara, C., 1993, ‘Development of an educational 
integrated substation digital protection and control system’, AUPEC’93, University of 
Wollongong, pp. 294-299. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Design and Laboratory evaluation of a digital 
AVR and a Fuzzy Controller’, AUPEC’93, University of Wollongong, pp. 595-600. 
 
Al-Dabbagh, L. and Kalam, A., 1993, ‘Analysis of fault location algorithm for EHV two 
and three terminal Transmission Lines’, AUPEC’93, University of Wollongong, pp. 347-
354. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1992, ‘Comparison of Fuzzy Logic Based and Rule 
Based Power System Stabilizer’, IEEE Conference on Control Applications, USA, pp. 
692-696. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1992, ‘Application of Fuzzy Logic Based Power 
System Stabiliser for a synchronous machine’, AUPEC’92¸Queensland University of 
Technology, pp. 285-290. 
 
Gondal, I. and Kalam, A., 1992, ‘Fault Transient Simulation of EHV Transmission 
Systems’, AUPEC’92, Queensland University of Technology, pp. 321-326. 
 
Shi, J., Herron, L.H. and Kalam, A., 1992, ‘A Fuzzy Logic Controller applied to Power 
System Stabilizer for a Synchronous Machine Power System’, IEEE Region 10 
Conference, Tencon ’92, Melbourne, pp. 346-350. 
 
Zayegh, A., Kalam, A. and Chen, Z., 1992, ’32-Bit Microprocessor Based Digital Relaying 
Technique for Overcurrent and Differential Protection’, Proceeding of International 
AMSE Conference, Egypt, pp. 81-87. 
 
Kalam, A., Klebanowski, A. and Poloni, D., 1991, ‘Application of Expert System to Power 
Transformer Protection’, IEE APSCOM – 91, Hong Kong, pp. 443-448. 
 
Kalam, A. and Johns, A.T., 1991, ‘Accurate Fault Location Technique for Multi-terminal 
EHV Lines’, IEE APSCOM – 91, Hong Kong, pp. 420-424. 
 
Johns, A.T. and Kalam, A., 1991, ‘Fault Locator for Teed Circuit EHV Lines’, UPEC’91, 
University of Bath, UK, pp. 357-360. 
 
Al-Dabbagh, L., Kalam, A. and Palamarczuk, A., 1991, ‘Accurate Fault Location for ehv 
Transmission Line’, AUPEC’91, Monash University, pp. 226-229. 
 
Singh, J., Kalam, A., Pleasants, A. and Al-Dabbagh, L., 1991, ‘Overvoltages due to 
Cogeneration Schemes Interconnected to the Power Grid’, AUPEC’91, Monash 
University, pp. 389-394. 
 
Kalam, A. and Johns, A.T., 1991, ‘Teed Feeder Fault Location’, AUPEC’91, Monash 
University, pp. 150-155. 
 

-----
Kalam, A., Klebanowski, A., Haywood, E. and Poloni, D., 1991, ‘Knowledge Based 
System for Transformer Protection Design’, AUPEC’91, Monash University, pp. 208-213. 
 
Taylor, V., Kalam, A. and Faulkner, M, 1991, ‘Innovative EHV Power Line Diagnostics 
using Pulse Compression Techniques’, AUPEC’91, Monash University, pp. 395-400. 
 
Cosic, A., Taylor, V., Faulkner, M. and Kalam, A., 1991, ‘Digital Power Line Carrier 
Communications on EHV Power Line’, AUPEC’91, Monash University, pp. 401-406. 
 
Kalam, A., 1989, ‘Research and Education in Power Energy Systems’, The World 
Conference on Engineering Education for Advancing Technology, Sydney, pp. 179-
181. 
 
Kalam, A., 1989, ‘Computer Assessment of Modern Distance Relay Performance as 
Applied to Both Series and Shunt Compensation in Long Distance ehv Transmission 
Lines’, International Conference on Power System Protection ’89, Singapore, pp. 640-
656. 
 
Taylor, V., Faulkner, M., Haydon, J. and Kalam, A., 1989, ‘Fault Location on ehv Lines 
Using Wideband Spread Spectrum Techniques’, International Conference on Power 
System Protection ’89, Singapore, pp. 140-161. 
 
Kalam, A., na Ranong, C. and Walker, E.K., 1988, ‘An Innovative Master Degree by 
Coursework in Electrical and Electronic Engineering’, Pacific Region Conference on 
Electrical Engineering Education PRCEEE – 88, Sydney, pp. 59.67. 
 
Kalam, A., 1987, ‘Digital Evaluation of Distance Relay Performance as Applied to Series 
Compensated ehv Feeders’, IEEE Region 8 First Symposium on Electric Power 
Systems in Fast Developing Countries, Saudi Arabia, pp. 529-534. 
 
Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1987, ‘Trend and Impact of 32-bit Microprocessor 
Applications’, I.E. Australian Conference on Computing Systems and Information 
Technology, Brisbane, pp. 6-10. 
 
Warmbier, M., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1987, ‘Interactive Data Acquisition System’, 
18th Annual CAE Computer Conference, Adelaide, pp. 513-520. 
 
Kalam, A., 1987, ‘A Computer Method for Solving Fault – Transient Phenomena in ehv 
Transmission Systems’, Internal Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, 
pp. 195-203. 
 
Kalam, A., 1987, ‘Capacitor Voltage Transformer Computer Simulation’, International 
Conference on Modelling and Simulation, Melbourne, pp. 473-481. 
 
Kalam, A. and Zayegh, A., 1986, ‘Advanced Microprocessor Based Controlling and 
Monitoring Industrial Machine’, 17th Annual CAE Computer Conference, pp. 457-471. 
 
Kalam, A., Lam, B.H. and Zayegh, A., 1986, ‘Microprocessor Based Motor Protection, 
Monitoring and Control’, I.E. Australian Electric Energy Conference 1986, Brisbane, 
pp. 72-76. 

-----
 
Kalam, A. and Shield, R., 1985, ‘Analog and Digital Simulation of a Capacitor Voltage 
Transformer’, 1985 Power Engineering Symposium, University of Sydney. 
 
Kalam, A., O’Brien, P. and Schroder, F., 1985, ‘Computer Aided Setting of Overcurrent 
Relays’, 1985 Power Engineering Symposium, University of Sydney. 
 
Kalam, A., Johns, A.T. and Aggarwal, R.K., 1985, ‘Fault Transient Analysis and Digital 
Simulation of Series Compensated Lines’, I.E. Australia Electric Energy Conference, 
Newcastle, pp. 263-267. 
 
Kalam, A. and McLean, C., 1984, ‘Transient Fault Analysis of Faulted Overhead 
Transmission Lines and their Associated Protection’, Proc. 5th CEPSI, Philippines. 
 
Kalam, A., Aggarwal, R. and Johns, A.T., 1981, ‘Digital Simulations of Fault Transients in 
ehv Series Compensated Transmission Lines’, 16th Univ. Power Engineering 
Conference, University of Sheffield, UK. 
 
 
(b) Non-Refereed Proceedings, Seminar and Internal Working Papers 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Power System Principle Applied in Protection Practice’, Tutorial to 
staff, student and PECon conference delegates, UTM, Malaysia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘How to write high impact research papers’, Seminars to staff at both 
Penang and Shah Alam Campuses at UiTM, Malaysia. 
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Postgraduate supervision research strategies’, PG colloquium UiTM, 
Malaysia.  
 
Kalam, A., 2008, ‘Research & industries collaboration and sharing experience’, 
Colloquium to staff of the Electrical Power Engineering at UiTM, Malaysia.  
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Cogeneration and Gas Turbine Operation’, Seminar Paper, Australian 
Cogeneration Association, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Cogeneration in Australia’, Seminar Paper, Reyrolle, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Grid Connected Energy System’, Seminar Paper, ESAA, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Power System Protection’, Seminar Paper, ESAA, Sydney. 
 
Kalam, A., 1998, ‘Photovoltaic (PV) pilot project to be used on Urban Freeways’, Seminar 
Paper, Monash University, Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 1989, ‘Computer Assessment of Protection Philosophies on Compensated ehv 
Systems’, E4G Conference on Power and Control, S.I.T., Melbourne. 
 
Rich, N. and Kalam, A., 1989, ‘Expert System on Power System Protection’, E4G 
Conference on Power and Control, S.I.T., Melbourne. 

-----
 
Taylor, V., Faulkner, M., Haydon, J. and Kalam, A., 1989, ‘Fault Location Innovation 
Using SS Techniques’, E4G Conference on Power and Control, S.I.T., Melbourne. 
 
Singh, M. and Kalam, A., 1989, ‘Transient Analysis of Small Generators Interconnected to 
the Power Grid’, E4G Conference on Power and Control, S.I.T., Melbourne. 
 
Kalam, A., 1987, ‘Frequency Domain Analysis of Transmission Lines’, E4G Conference 
on Power and Control, S.I.T., Melbourne. 
 
 
(6) Patent 
 
Mahdavian, H., Zayegh, A. and Kalam, A., 1999, ‘Induction of Power (in Motor) from a 
Stationary Object (Stator) to a Rotary Object (Rotor) with Automatic and Sensorless Speed 
and Position Detection’, Patent Number 708569, Australian Patent Office. 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL, IN-SERVICE and PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING: 
 
I have been involved in the design, development, implementation and evaluation of academic 
programmes for students at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.  I have contributed to 
the course design, instructional methods and learning styles.  I have and continue to present 
syndicate and lectures to the ESAA’s Power Engineering Residential School in Australia.  I am 
also involved in the transfer of established and new knowledge, ideas and skills to personnel 
from the electricity supply industry.  My established teaching areas are: 
 
A. 
Power System Analysis, Control, Protection and Communications; 
B. 
Alternative Energy Systems; 
C. 
Design Theory; 
D. 
Electrical Machine; 
E. 
Digital Simulation of Power System; 
F.  
Electrical Circuits and Linear System Theory; 
G. 
High Voltage Engineering. 
 
This year I have been requested by the API to develop one postgraduate and two undergraduate 
module for API, under the collaborative Power Engineering Centres of Excellence scheme. VU 
will be paid between $25,000 - 40,000 for each of the modules. The modules are: 
 
• Overhead design and Construction (PG) 
• Telecommunications and Communications Protocols (UG) 
• Engineering System Fundamentals (UG). 
 
Also, I have given contributions to educational excellence, by conducting various seminars and 
workshops to professional bodies (viz. API, Energy Supply Association of Australia, 
Electricity Supply Industries of Victoria, Australian Cogeneration Association, Engineers 
Australia, etc.) and overseas.  Each of these courses has provided valuable financial returns 
(from $15,000 to $30,000) to the University.  In Australia, besides Victoria, the professional 
development courses have run in Queensland, Northern Territory, New South Wales, Western 
Australia and South Australia.  ESAA has chosen Power System Protection as the first in a 

-----
series of units in Electric Power Engineering to be provided on distance education mode.  This 
unit provides credit towards Masters and Graduate Diplomas of Engineering and Technology 
offered by various providers.  This distance education unit provides corporations and the 
individual with a flexible means of accessing training to meet immediate needs for skill 
development.  A major part of the unit has been adapted and revised with the assistance of 
Allan Spicer of ESAA, from my book on Power System Protection – this is the study unit 
developed for ESAA’s Continuing Education courses.  Again along with Bob Coulter, I have 
run continuing education courses on Power System Protection in Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and 
New Zealand.  A list of national and international seminars and professional development 
courses I have conducted/ organised is as follows: 
 
• Power System Protection, ESAA & VUT, Adelaide, Darwin, Wellington, 
Melbourne, Perth, Sydney 1996-2004. 
 
• Cogeneration and Gas Turbine Operation, ESAA, ACA, IE Aust & VUT, 
Townsville, Brisbane, Alice Springs, Perth, Melbourne, Sydney 1997-2004. 
 
• Grid Connected Energy System, ESAA, Melbourne 1999. 
 
• Power System Protection, UTM & VUT, Johor Baru, Malaysia, 10-12 
December 1996. 
 
• Cogeneration, ESAA, ACA & VUT, Sydney, 26-28 March 1996. 
 
• Power System Protection, ESAA & VUT, Melbourne, 6-8 June 1995. 
 
• Packaging Private Power, ACA, Melbourne, 29 April 1995. 
 
• Power System Protection, ESAA & VUT, Melbourne, 7-9 November 1994. 
 
• Cogeneration, ESAA, ACA & VUT, Melbourne, 14-16 June 1994. 
 
• Transmission and Distribution System Protection and Workshop, ESAA, UWA 
& VUT, Adelaide in conjunction with CIGRE, 26-29 July 1993. 
 
• Power System Protection, ESAA & VUT, Melbourne, 9-11 November 1992. 
 
• Power System Protection, ESAA & VUT, Melbourne, 23-25 September 1991. 
 
• Power System Protection for distribution, sub-transmission and transmission 
engineers, FIT, Melbourne, 19-23 February 1990. 
 
• E4G Conference on Power and Control, S.I.T., Melbourne, 30 September 1987. 
 
• Power System Protection, FIT, Melbourne, 16-19 June 1987. 
 
• Power System Protection for municipal electrical authorities, FIT, Melbourne, 
5-7 November 1986. 
 

-----
• All India Seminar on Protection and Grounding, The Institution of Engineers 
(India), Bhubaneswar, 22-24 January 1984. 
 
• Circuit Breakers, CIAE, Rockhampton, 26-27 September 1984, 
 
• Power System Protection for para-professional, CIAE, Gladstone, 29-30 
November 1983. 
 
• Recent trends in Power System Protection and their application, CIAE, 
Rockhampton, 11-13 July 1983 and GIAE, Churchill, 19-21 July 1983. 
 
I have written papers and course materials directly resulting from the research activities and 
quality teaching approach.  I have been invited to teach electrical power engineering courses 
and provided syndicate in Australia (viz. Curtin University of Technology – API Power 
Engineering Summer Residential School, 2008 and 2009, University of Tasmania – Power 
Engineering Summer School, 2007, University of New South Wales – Power Engineering 
Summer School, 2005 and 2006, University of Queensland – Power Engineering Summer 
School, 2004, Monash University – Power Engineering summer school, 2001; Monash – 
Power Engineering summer school, 1993; Melbourne – Power Engineering summer school, 
1996) and overseas.  In 2002, both Monash and Victoria University ran ESAA residential 
summer school in Power Engineering cooperatively. At the end of 2001, I was invited to give a 
course in India on ‘Current trends in Power’.  Also I have taught in certain non-electrical 
courses in other institution viz. Australian Catholic University, Mercy Campus. 
 
Student Evaluation 
 
My students have evaluated all the courses in which I have been involved.  Also feedback has 
been obtained from the continuous education course run for the electricity supply industry. 
 
After every course an evaluation form is given to each participant and many a time very useful 
feedback has come back – this has eventually helped in improving the teaching style and 
course material.  The teaching and evaluation methods are not only based on end of year or 
semester examination but continuous monitoring of student progress through home 
assignments, class tests and oral examinations. 
 
My evaluation sheet has been made available to all academic staff in the former Department of 
Electrical and Electronic Engineering.  Also many colleagues now use similar continuous self-
assessment methods in teaching their course. 
 
 
SUPERVISION OF RESEARCH STUDENTS: 
 
I have supervised a number of projects, both at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.  The 
following is the list of theses/ projects I have been associated with: 
 
Postgraduate: 
 
Doctoral by research (Principal Supervisor) 
 
 
 

-----
Implementation of the IEC61850 International 
Protocol for Accurate Fault Location and Arc 
Voltage estimation in Overhead Power Lines 
Blagoj Stojevski 
Initial Stage 
(2011) 
 
Advanced Transient Control of a Hybrid 
Solar/Diesel Electric Power System  
 
Tay Yin Taky Chan 
 
Initial Stage 
(2011) 
 
Medium High Voltage Power Cables Testing 
and Diagnostics 
 
Can OĞUZ 
 
Initial Stage 
(2011) 
 
Direct Current based 
microgrid/distribution/power system/grid 
Integration of DG 
 
Faizan Dastageer 
 
Initial Stage 
(2011) 
 
Power Quality Issues in Electric Power 
Distribution System 
 
Zahir J. Paracha 
 
Intermediate Stage 
(2010) 
Investigation of distribution networks with non-
conventional energy sources 
Goparanjan 
Mohapatra 
Intermediate Stage 
(2010) 
Experimental Analysis and Development of a 
Secure Power System 
Abdulrahman 
Hadbah 
Intermediate Stage 
(2010) 
Technical 
consideration 
and 
impact 
of 
converting overhead powerlines to underground 
power cables 
Hassan Al-Khalidi 
Examination Stage 
(2009) 
Soft computing Technologies in power system 
analysis  
Joseph 
Nihal 
Fernando 
Completed 
(2008) 
Experimental analysis and modelling of an 
information embedded power system  
Amanullah Maung 
Than Oo  
Completed 
(2007) 
A new approach to assessment and utilisation of 
distribution power transformers 
Selver Corhodzic 
Completed 
(2006) 
Fault detection and location on 22kV and 11kV 
distribution feeders 
Ryzard Orlowski 
Completed 
(2006) 
Transient analysis of a private generation 
scheme 
Rushan 
Muttucumaru 
Completed 
1999 
Power system stabilisers using fuzzy logic and 
neural networks 
Nasser 
Hozzeinzadeh 
Completed 
1998 
Application of expert system to power system 
protection 
system 
design, 
analysis 
and 
assessment 
Sow Kum Wong 
Completed 
1997 
Implementation of massively large processing 
elements 
Jugdutt Singh 
Completed 
1997 

-----
A sequential approach of solving exact 
decoupled second order ac-dc load flow and 
state estimation problem 
Zahidul Haque 
Completed 
1996 
Advanced microprocessor based relays for 
overcurrent and differential protection 
Ze Jian Chen 
Completed 
1996 
Application of modal analysis using adaptive 
scheme of interference cancellation for power 
line carrier communication 
Iqbal Gondal 
Completed 
1996 
Accurate transmission line fault locator 
Lara Al-Dabbagh 
Completed 
1994 
 
 
Doctoral by Research (Co-supervisor) 
 
Communication infrastructure for protection 
and network automation 
Charles Ozansoy 
Completed 
(2006) 
A smart motor drive system for domestic and 
industrial applications 
Hossein Mahdavian  Completed 
2001 
Fault location on ehv lines using wide band 
spread spectrum techniques 
Victor Taylor 
Completed 
1998 
Application of fuzzy logic stabilisers for power 
systems 
Joanne Shi 
Completed 
1994 
 
 
Master’s by Research (Principal Supervisor) 
 
 
 
 
High performance Electric Vehicles 
Lavanya 
Varadharajan 
Initial Stage   
(2011) 
Impact of Distributed Generation (DG) on 
Smart Grid (SG) 
Nur Aysik 
Initial stage   
(2010) 
Power Transfer Analysis of a Fuel Cell Inverter 
Joevis Claveria 
Intermediate Stage 
(2010) 
Protection for Wave Power Generating System 
Tay Yin Taky Chan Completed 
2004 
Integration of power system protection and 
control substations 
Indunil C. 
Kannangara 
Completed 
1994 

-----
Cogeneration in distribution system: Planning, 
operation and transients 
Mahabir Singh 
Completed 
1994 
A local area network using spread spectrum 
techniques (acting for Mr P Leung) 
Alec Simcock 
Completed 
1990 
 
 
 
Master’s by coursework (Principal Supervisor) 
(The following theses/ projects were successful externally examined) 
 
IEC61850 – Pilot Project – Protection 
Mohammed 
Iftekhar 
Ahmed 
Syed 
2009 
IEC61850 – Pilot Project – Communication  
Gibran Malik 
2009 
Power System Analysis – Line Models and 
performances 
Wahaj Habib 
1999 
An analysis of industrial electrical power 
systems software 
Darius S. Salehi 
1998 
Associate protection techniques in cogeneration 
P.M. Aloot 
1996 
Design of a Fuzzy Logic Based Power System 
Stabiliser (FLBPSS) 
Suhail Naqshbandi 
1995 
Digital synthesise of protection test waveforms 
for monitoring and testing response of power 
system protection equipment 
H.D Renuka 
Rodrigo 
1994 
Comparison 
between 
a 
conventional 
PI 
controller and a PI like fuzzy controller 
Rupinder Singh 
1994 
Benchmark algorithm for spectral analysis of 
fault induced transients 
V. Navaratnam 
1994 
Temperature alarm and control systems 
Jia Qi Gao 
1994 
Sequence development on ABB MOD 300 
distributed control system 
Dan Hohor 
1994 
Advanced microprocessor based multi-digital 
for overcurrent protection 
Zhenrong Liu 
1994 
32-bit Microprocessor for protecting power 
transformers 
Wang Yi Bin 
1994 
Stability 
study 
on 
Victorian 
Hospitals Alan Goodridge 
1994 

-----
cogeneration project 
Simulation of Power Line Carrier System 
Jing-Hao Gu 
1993 
Power Transmission Line 
Tao Jiang 
1993 
Synchronous machine simulation using TACS 
Peter Tsetis 
1993 
32-bit microprocessor application for multiple 
protective relaying 
Hong Xu Chen 
1993 
Development of fault location algorithm for 
series compensated ehv power transmission 
lines using ATP4 
Con Themelios 
1993 
Modelling 
synchronous 
machine 
for 
the 
analysis of electromagnetic transients 
Sarath Kumara 
Kapudwage 
1993 
New protective scheme for unsymmetrical fault 
detection on industrial cogeneration – public 
network interface 
Chandra Jayanth 
Weliwitage 
1993 
Adapting ATP4 program for teaching Power 
Electronics 
Kuo-Hsing Chiang 
1993 
Intel 80386 microprocessor system application 
on overcurrent protection relaying 
Yao Yukun 
1993 
Simulation of an AVR and stabiliser for a 
synchronous generator  
Huan Li 
1992 
Design and implementation of a PC based AVR 
and stabiliser for a synchronous Chen generator 
Ze Jian 
1992 
Fast decoupled load flow analysis 
Selladurai 
Sivapathasundaram 
1992 
Simulation of series compensated transmission 
system on ATP4 
Chau Minh Huynh 
1992 
Load flow analysis for multi-busbar system 
using finite mathematics with the help of PC 
Chong Yan Fatt 
1991 
Fault transient simulation of ehv transmission 
system 
Iqbal Gondal 
1991 
 
 
Undergraduate (4th/ 3rd year Projects): 
 
Since 1982, I have been running number of 3rd and 4th year design projects. For the last few 
years, I have supervised about 19 final year undergraduate projects annually. One of the 
projects has also received the best IREE final year student project award.  

-----
 
EE461 
Development of remote signaling 
emergency 
unit 
(Year 
4) 
IREE 
BEST 
FINAL 
YEAR 
PROJECT AWARD* 
Matry 
Thianesysavanah 
1989 
 
EXTERNAL EXAMINATION, REVIEWS AND ASSESSMENTS: 
 
I have been external examiner for various institutions.  Some of the recent Australian and 
overseas research theses and other assessments I have examined are listed as follows: 
 
Chair, Engineers Australia Accreditation Committee for various Australian Universities 
Expert External member (nominated by the DVC) to the RMIT’s Faculty of Engineering 
Academic Promotions Scheme from Level D to E 
Assessor of Manuscript: King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Saudi Arabia 
Assessor of Manuscript: IET. Proceedings: Generation, Transmission and Distribution 
Assessor of Manuscript: Engineers Australia 
Assessor of Manuscript: International Journal of Renewable Energy Engineering 
Assessor of Manuscript: Microelectronics Reliability 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Monash University 
Assessor of Grant Application: Monash University.  ARC Small Grants 2000 
Assessor of Manuscript: Powercon 2000 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: University of Western Sydney 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, India 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Central Queensland University 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, India 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, India 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Monash University 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Swinburne Graduate Research School, Swinburne 
University of Technology 
Editorial Reviewer: IE Australia 
Assessor of Grant Application: University-Industry Research Collaboration Committee, SPIRT 
Grant, ARC 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: University of North Bengal, India 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: University of Delhi, India 
Editorial Reviewer: Solar 99 
Editorial Reviewer: Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference 
Editorial Reviewer: Iranian Journal of Science and Technology 
Editorial Reviewer: Electric Power Systems Research 
Assessor of Research Grant Proposals: Research Grants Council of Hong Kong 
Assessor of Grant Application: Australian Research Council Large Grants Scheme 
Assessor of Grant Application: Monash University – Australian Research Council Small Grant 
Assessor of Grant Application: Australian Research Council SPIRT Grants Scheme 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: RMIT 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: University of Tasmania 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: IIT Kanpur, India 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: TIET Patiala, India 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: IIT Kharagpur, India 
Examiner of Higher Degree Thesis: Swinburne University of Technology 

-----
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE CONTRIBUTIONS: 
 
I have contributed significantly to the University’s continued growth and have been nominated/ 
selected for various administration positions.  Some of the notable contributions of mine within 
the last seven years are: 
 
• Chair of the Werribee OH&S Committee. 
• Member of the Committee for Werribee. 
• Chair of the Werribee Advisory Committee. 
• Member of the Werribee Management Committee. 
• Deputy Dean of the Faculty of Health, Engineering & Science , VU. 
• Head of the former Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, VU. 
• Research Director in the former Department of Electrical and Electronic 
Engineering, VU. 
• Visiting Professor in the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of 
Technology Malaysia (UTM). 
• Visiting Professor in the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of 
Technology MARA (UiTM). 
• External Examiner in the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of 
Malaysia Perlis (UniMAP). 
• Member of VU’s former Faculty of Engineering Research Committee. 
• Member of VU’s former Faculty of Engineering Promotion (Associate 
Professor and Professor) Committee. 
• Member of VU’s former Faculty of Engineering International Committee. 
• Course Director for Master of Electrical and Electronic Engineering by 
coursework at VU. 
• Member of the Course Advisory Board in the Department of Electrical and 
Electronic Engineering.  
• Mentor for 1st year Electrical and Electronic Engineering degree students at FIT/ 
VU. 
• Member of FIT’s Research and Graduate Studies Committee. 
• Member of VU’s former EEE Higher Degrees Committee. 
• Member of the course accreditation committee for both undergraduate and 
postgraduate studies. 
 
Being the former Course Director of the Master’s by coursework degree, I contributed to the 
complete establishment of that programme from a very humble beginning to a very strong 
growth of 100 enrolments in 1992.  Some of the staff have completed this course – which 
facilitated their personal development. There was no PhD programme offered by the former 
department and I personally administered the submission through the Faculty, course advisory 
board, research and graduate studies committee, academic and progress committee and finally 
the doctoral committee.  I initiated and wrote (with other within the former department) the 
submission for the first doctoral programme in the former Faculty of Engineering.  One of our 
academic staff has completed doctoral studies under my supervision. Recently I initiated the 
first DEngSc programme in the Faculty of Health, Engineering & Science. 
 

-----
I have been a member of the export of education working group since 1985.  In this capacity, I 
have represented FIT/ VUT overseas and recruited students, not only for engineering and 
science but other faculties as well.  From time to time the International Office consults me on 
various international student matters and issues.  I have been a member of VU’s strategic 
Planning on ‘Internationalisation of VUT’.  
 
I have also been a member of various Faculty’s (internal and external) undergraduate and 
postgraduate accreditation/ approval/ review committees.  The contribution given on these 
committees has been on restructuring the courses, incorporating new syllabus of various 
engineering subjects, views on overseas engineering courses, administrative structure etc.  The 
establishment of the QMS in the Faculty of Health, Engineering & Science has been my big 
achievement. 
 
 
FURTHER ACTIVITIES 
 
Muslim Chaplain, VU 
Chairman and Director of Muslim Cooperative Credit Australia 
Member of the VU working party for export of educational services. 
Member of the FIT Footscray Language Centre. 
Chairman if the Islamic Book Service. 
Chairman of the VU Muslim Student Association. 
Member of the Committee on Arabic and Middle East course formation in the 
Humanities Department at FIT. 
Delivering various lectures on minority issues and comparative religion at La Trobe, 
Monash, Chisholm, Mercy and other Institutions. 
 
 
REFEREES 
 
The names and addresses of six referees are as follows: 
 
1. 
Professor Albert E. J. McGill 
 
89 Melvins Road 
 
Riddells Creek 
 
Victoria 3431 
 Tel:   +61 3 5428 6461 
 
Mob: +61 4 1936 1910 
 
e-mail: Albert.Mcgill@futureforfood.com 
 
 
Current contact (till December 2009): 
 
School of Food Science 
 
National University of Singapore 
 
Singapore 
         Tel:    +65 651 63501  
 
Mob: +65 9120 7798 
 
e-mail: chmmaej@nus.edu.sg 
 

-----
(Professor McGill, former Dean of Faculty of Science, Engineering & Technology, 
Victoria University has been my immediate supervisor from 1999 and is well aware of all 
my teaching, research, administrative and external activities) 
 
2. 
Professor D P Kothari 
 
Vice Chancellor 
(Former Director and Professor of Centre for Energy Studies - Indian Institute of 
Technology, Delhi) 
 
Vellore Institute of Technology University 
 
Vellore 632 014 
 
Tamil Nadu 
 
India 
Tel: +91 416 2202113 (Off), +91 416 2248701 (Res), +91 9443311334 (Mob) 
 
Fax: +91 416 2243092, 2240411 
 
Email: vc@vit.ac.in 
 
(Professor Kothari is a world leading energy expert and will be able to comment on my 
research activities) 
 
3. 
Associate Professor Aladin Zayegh 
 
School of Engineering and Science 
 
Victoria University 
 
PO Box 14428 
 
Melbourne VIC 8001 
 
Tel:  +61 3 9919 4858 
 
Fax: +61 3 9919 4908 
 
Email: aladin.zayegh@vu.edu.au 
 
(Professor Zayegh is the former Head of the School of Electrical Engineering at Victoria 
University and has knowledge of all my teaching, research and external initiatives) 
 
4. 
Mr. Patrick McMullan 
         Senior Engineer – Standards and Communications Design and Engineering 
 
Energy Australia 
 
Level 13 
 
570 George Street 
 
Sydney 
 
NSW 2000 
 
Tel:   +61 2 8260 1716 
 
Fax:  +61 2 9269 4412 
         Mob: +61 4 0741 2722 
 
Email: pmcmullan@energy.com.au 
 
(Mr. McMullan has knowledge of the professional development and distance education 
courses that I provided to the electricity supply industries in Australia and overseas) 
 
5. 
Mr. R Coulter 
 
Manager, Engineering and Strategic Development 
 
Adapt Australia 
 
29 Barrie Road 

-----
 
Tullamarine 
 
Victoria 3043 
 
Tel: + 61 3 9330 0666 
 
Fax: +61 3 9330 0777 
 
Mob:+61 4 2245 1050 
 
Email: bob.coulter@bigpond.com  
 
(Mr. Coulter, formerly of Powercor Australia has been associated with me for along 
period of time.  We, jointly, present courses to the industries, conduct research and 
provided consultancy in the energy area) 
 
6. 
Mr. Allan Cotton 
 
Manager – Network Asset Management 
 SP-Ausnet 
 Level 33 
 385 Bourke Street 
 Melbourne 3000 
 Tel:   +61 3 8628 1084 
 
Mob: +61 4 1901 0225 
 
Email: alan.cotton@sp-ausnet.com.au 
 
(Mr. Cotton is also a member of the ESAA Advisory Committee and can comment on my 
industry’s initiatives). 
 

-----
