Professor Akira Matsuzawa 
  
Prof. Matsuzawa received B.S., M.S., and Ph. D. degrees in electronics engineering from Tohoku 
University, Sendai, Japan, in 1976, 1978, and 1997 respectively. In 1978, he joined Matsushita Electric 
Industrial Co. Ltd. Since then, he has been working on research and development of analog and Mixed 
Signal LSI technologies; ultra-high speed ADCs, intelligent CMOS sensors, RF CMOS circuits, digital read-
channel technologies for DVD systems, ultra-high speed interface technologies for metal and optical 
fibers, a boundary scan technology, and CAD technology. He was also responsible for the development of 
low power LSI technology, ASIC libraries, analog CMOS devices, SOI devices. From 1997 to 2003, he was 
a general manager in advanced LSI technology development center. On April 2003, he joined Tokyo 
Institute of Technology and he is a professor on physical electronics. Currently he is researching in mixed 
signal technologies; CMOS wireless transceiver, RF CMOS circuit design, data converters, and organic EL 
drivers. He served the guest editor in chief for special issue on analog LSI technology of IEICE 
transactions on electronics in 1992, 1997, and 2003, the vice-program chairman for International 
Conference on Solid State Devices and Materials (SSDM) in 1999 and 2000, the Co-Chairman for Low 
Power Electronics Workshop in 1995, a member of program committee for analog technology in ISSCC 
and the guest editor for special issues of IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices. He has published 26 
technical journal papers and 46 international conference papers. He is co-author of 8 books. He holds 34 
registered Japan patents and 65 US and EPC patents. He is an IEEE Fellow since 2002. In April 2003 he 
joined, as a Professor, the Department of Physical electronics at Titech.  
 
Awards 
• 
1983 IR100 Award (USA)  
• 
1994 Remarkable Invention Award (JP)  
• 
1994 R&D100 Award (USA)  
• 
2002 IEEE Fellow Award  
• 
2003 ISSCC2002 The Evening Panel Award  
• 
2005 ISSCC2004 The Evening-Panel Award  
 
Research 
Our Aims and Perspectives 
It evolved to the digital technique now though the basis of electronic equipment was an analog 
technology before. As a result, not only personal computers but also "Digital consumer electronics" for 
example DVD, digital TV, digital still camera, flat panel display and so on dominated in the world. 
Furthermore, a digital network, for example Internet, Wireless LAN, and the cellular phone and so on will 
be expected to spread. Aggravated problems of the signal integrity, the noise radiation, and power 
consumption, etc. are at these equipment. It is necessary to use a sophisticated analog technology, even 
if the digital techniques are used for these. Therefore, the technology that mixes the digital technique 
with the analog technique is desired currently. Namely, the "mixed signal system LSI" is the most 

-----
important key technology in electronics. Our researches focus on the high performance mixed signal 
system LSI design.  
 
Research Topics 
"The Implementation of Multi-bands Multi-standards Wireless Systems LSI." 
Multi-bands multi-standards wireless systems that based on software defined radio techniques are 
demanded more and more in the future. To meet such requirements, the high performance A/D 
converters and digital RF techniques are receiving much attention as important elements. These 
techniques are expected to become key technology at not only wireless systems but also wireless sensor 
networks, high performance digital networks and Digital Recording Systems etc. Furthermore, these 
techniques assure to provide some unexpected evolution in the world. To implement these concepts, our 
laboratory develops following elements.  
 
The Development of High-performance CMOS Analog to Digital Converters 
A recent trend toward a large system integration on a LSI. The biggest problems associated with the high 
density integration is higher speed operation, power dissipation and low voltage circuit design. To meet 
such requirements as the wide bandwidth operations under the low supply voltage, A/D converters are 
receiving much attention as important elements.  
 
Digital RF Techniques for Wireless Systems 
Multi-bands multi-standards wireless systems should be based on software defined radio techniques. 
Meanwhile, the analog technology has been still used in a lot of wireless RF circuits that operate over 
GHz. Herein key features of digital RF techniques that we propose are able to reduce analog 
counterparts, and to have the excellent interface with software. However, the design techniques of digital 
RF are not yet established. Therefore, to exploit such potential of digital RF techniques, the diagram 
shown in Fig. 3 is investigated in our laboratory. We especially take up the elements as follows. The 
sampling mixer that has filter function. The digital synthesizer that can adjust to multi-band, and achieves 
high-speed frequency change. By combining with high-performance CMOS A/D converter techniques that 
can adjust characteristics, it is possible to produce that wireless system LSI and wireless sensor network 
LSI that responds to multi-band multi-standard.  
 
 
Contact 
Prof. Akira Matsuzawa 
matsu@ssc.pe.titech.ac.jp 
Office: S3 Building, 3F 312  
TEL/FAX: +81-3-5734-2508  
2-12-1 S3-27, Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8552 Japan  
Department of Physical Electronics, Tokyo Institute of Technology  
Matsuzawa and Okada Lab.  
 
 

-----
Citation Report generated from Web of Science 
Results found: 156  
Sum of the Times Cited: 644  
Sum of Times Cited without self-citations: 555   
Citing Articles: 586  
Citing Articles without self-citations: 528  
Average Citations per Item: 4.13  
h-index: 13 
 

-----
