Home >  People >  Academic Staff >  Professor Chen, Ben Mei 
Professor Chen, Ben Mei
Professor
B.Sc. in Mathematics and Computer Science, Xiamen University, China
M.Sc. in Electrical Engineering, Gonzaga University, USA
PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Washington State University, USA
Address:
Mechanical and Automation Engineering
Room 311, William M.W. Mong Engineering Building
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T.
Hong Kong SAR, China 
Tel:
Fax:
e-mail:
Website:
(852) 3943 8054
(852) 2603 6002
bmchen@mae.cuhk.edu.hk
http://www.mae.cuhk.edu.hk/~bmchen
Biography
Ben M. Chen received his B.Sc. in Mathematics and Computer Science from Xiamen University, 
China, in 1983, M.Sc. in Electrical Engineering from Gonzaga University, USA, in 1988, and Ph.D. 
in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Washington State University, USA, in 1991. He is 
currently a Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering at the Chinese 
University of Hong Kong. He was a Provost's Chair Professor in the Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering, the National University of Singapore (NUS), where he was also serving as 
the Director of Control, Intelligent Systems and Robotics Area, and Head of Control Science 
Group, NUS Temasek Laboratories. His current research interests are in unmanned systems, 
robust control, control applications, and financial market modeling. 
Dr. Chen has published more than 400 journal and conference articles, and a dozen research 
monographs in control theory and applications, unmanned systems as well as financial market 
modeling. He had served on the editorial boards of several international journals including IEEE 
Transactions on Automatic Control and Automatica. He currently serves as an Editor-in-Chief of 
Unmanned Systems. Dr. Chen has received a number of research awards nationally and 
internationally. His research team has actively participated in international UAV competitions, and 
won many championships in the contests. He is an IEEE Fellow.
Biography
Research
Publications
Copyright © 2019. All Rights Reserved.
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
Webmail
Sitemap
CUHK
Disclaimer
Faculty of Engineering
Links
Contact
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Home
Department
Programmes
Admission
Facilities
People
Research
Students
Seminars
MAE Videos
MAE Intranet
Page 1 of 1
Academic Staff - MAE CUHK
6/10/2019
http://www.mae.cuhk.edu.hk/people/list.php?name=bmchen

-----
