 
1 
Chang-Tsun Li 
Professor, EU Marie Curie Fellow, Fellow of the British Computer Society 
(FBCS)  
CONTACT 
Computer Science  
Room CS228  
Department of Computer Science  
University of Warwick  
Coventry  CV4 7AL 
Tel: 024 7657 3794  
Email: C-T.Li@warwick.ac.uk 
Background 
Chang-Tsun Li received the B.E. degree in electrical engineering from Chung-
Cheng Institute of Technology (CCIT), National Defense University, Taiwan, 
in 1987, the M.S. degree in computer science from U.S. Naval Postgraduate 
School, USA, in 1992, and the Ph.D. degree in computer science from the 
University of Warwick, UK, in 1998. He was an associate professor of the 
Department of Electrical Engineering at CCIT during 1998-2002 and a visiting 
professor of the Department of Computer Science at U.S. Naval 
Postgraduate School in the second half of 2001. He is currently a professor of 
the Department of Computer Science at the University of Warwick, UK. He 
was Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics 
(2009 ? 2013) and is currently Associate Editor of the EURASIP Journal of 
Image and Video Processing (JIVP), Associate Editor-in-Chief of International 
Journal of Biometrics and Bioinformatics (IJBB) and Associate of Editor of 
Human-centric Computing and Information Sciences (HCIS). He has involved 
in the organization of a number of international conferences and workshops 
and also served as member of the international program committees for 
several international conferences. He is also the coordinator of the 
international joint project entitled Digital Image and Video Forensics funded 
through the Marie Curie Industry-Academia Partnerships and Pathways 
(IAPP) under the EU's Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) from June 
2010 to May 2014. His research interests include digital forensics, biometrics, 
multimedia security, bioinformatics, computer vision, image processing, 
pattern recognition, evolutionary computation, machine learning and content-
based image retrieval.  
 
Citation Index: 1480 
Publication List (with citations from Google scholar) [CITATION]  
 
Trademark image retrieval using synthetic features for describing global 
shape and interior structure 
CH Wei, Y Li, WY Chau, CT Li - Pattern Recognition, 2009 - Elsevier 
A trademark image retrieval (TIR) system is proposed in this work to deal with the vast  
number of trademark images in the trademark registration system. The proposed approach  
commences with the extraction of edges using the Canny edge detector, performs a shape ... 
Cited by 114   
Source camera identification using enhanced sensor pattern noise 
CT Li - Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions …, 2010 - ieeexplore.ieee.org 
Abstract—Sensor pattern noises (SPNs), extracted from digital images to serve as the  
fingerprints of imaging devices, have been proved as an effective way for digital device  
identification. However, as we demonstrate in this work, the limitation of the current ... 
Cited by 112   

-----
 
2 
 
A class of discrete multiresolution random fields and its application to 
image segmentation 
R Wilson, CT Li - Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, …, 2003 - ieeexplore.ieee.org 
Abstract—In this paper, a class of Random Field model, defined on a multiresolution array is  
used in the segmentation of gray level and textured images. The novel feature of one form of  
the model is that it is able to segment images containing unknown numbers of regions, ... 
Cited by 88   
Semi-fragile watermarking scheme for authentication of JPEG images 
CK Ho, CT Li - … and Computing, 2004. Proceedings. ITCC 2004. …, 2004 - 
ieeexplore.ieee.org 
Abstract With the increasing popularity of JPEG images, a need arises to devise effective  
watermarking techniques which consider JPEG compression as an acceptable  
manipulation. In this paper, we present a semi-fragile watermarking scheme which ... 
Cited by 80   
Image authentication and integrity verification via content-based 
watermarks and a public key cryptosystem 
CT Li, DC Lou, TH Chen - Image Processing, 2000. …, 2000 - ieeexplore.ieee.org 
ABSTRACT A technique using the inherent feature map of the underlying image as the  
watermark is proposed in this work. First, the binary feature map is extracted as watermark  
and partitioned into blocks. Secondly, neighboring feature map block are blended and ... 
Cited by 58   
Oblivious fragile watermarking scheme for image authentication 
CT Li, FM Yang, CS Lee - Acoustics, Speech, and Signal …, 2002 - ieeexplore.ieee.org 
ABSTRACT An efficient. fragile watermarking scheme intended for image authentication and  
integrity verification is proposed in this work. To watermark the underlying image, the gray  
scale of each pixel is adjusted by an imperceptible quantity according to the consistency ... 
Cited by 45   
A contrast-sensitive reversible visible image watermarking technique 
Y Yang, X Sun, H Yang, CT Li… - Circuits and Systems for …, 2009 - ieeexplore.ieee.org 
Abstract—A reversible (also called lossless, distortion-free, or invertible) visible  
watermarking scheme is proposed to satisfy the applications, in which the visible watermark  
is expected to combat copyright piracy but can be removed to losslessly recover the ... 
Cited by 57   
 
Wavelet-based fragile watermarking scheme for image authentication 
CT Li, H Si - Journal of Electronic Imaging, 2007 - electronicimaging.spiedigitallibrary. … 
Abstract. We propose a fragile watermarking scheme in the wavelet transform domain that is  
sensitive to all kinds of manipulations and has the ability to localize the tampered regions.  
To achieve high transparency (ie, low embedding distortion) while providing protection to ... 
Cited by 43   
 
One-dimensional neighborhood forming strategy for fragile 
watermarking 
CT Li, FM Yang - Journal of Electronic Imaging, 2003 - electronicimaging.spiedigitallibrary. … 
Abstract. It is recognized that block-wise dependence is a key requirement for fragile  
watermarking schemes to thwart vector quantization attack. It has also been proved that  
dependence with deterministic or limited context is susceptible to transplantation attack or ... 
Cited by 38   
A content-based approach to medical image database retrieval 
CH Wei, CT Li, R Wilson - Database Modeling for Industrial Data …, 2005 - 
books.google.com 

-----
 
3 
Abstract Content-based image retrieval (CBIR) makes use of image features, such as color  
and texture, to index images with minimal human intervention. Content-based image  
retrieval can be used to locate medical images in large databases. This chapter ... 
Cited by 32   
 

-----
