 
Prof. ChulhongKim 
Email: chulhong@postech.ac.kr 
 
 
Dr. Chulhong Kim studied for his Ph.D. degree and postdoctoral training at Washington 
University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri under the supervision of Dr. Lihong V. Wang, 
Gene K. Beare Distinguished Professor (main advisor; currently, Bren Professor of 
Medical Engineering and Electrical Engineering at California Institute of Technology), Dr. 
Younan Xia, and Dr. Samuel Achilefu. He currently holds Mueunjae Chaired 
Professorship and is an Associate Professor of Creative IT Engineering, Mechanical 
Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Interdisciplinary Bioscience and Bioengineering 
at Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH, #1 in the world: The 
100/50 Young University rankings for three consecutive years 2012-2014, #3 in the 
world: The world’s best small universities 2017) in Republic of Korea. Before he joined 
the department, he was an Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering at the 
University at Buffalo, the State University of New York from Aug 2010 to Jan 2013. He 
was the recipients of the 2017 IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society 
(EMBS) Academic Early Career Achievement Award, the 2017 Korean Academy of 
Science and Technology Early Career Achievement Award (The Korean 
Presidential and Highest Award for Engineers under 40), and the 2017 Korean 
Society 
of 
Medical 
& 
Biological 
Engineering 
Young 
Investigator 
Award “Contributions to multi-scale photoacoustic imaging from super-resolution atomic 
force photoactivated microscopy for research to systems for clinical applications.” He has 
published 107 peer-reviewed journal articles (Nature Nanotechnology, Nature 
Materials, Chemical Reviews, Light Science & Applications, Nano Letters, 
Angewandt Chemie, Journal of the American Chemical Society, ACSNano, Advanced 
Functional Materials, Radiology, Biomaterials, Scientific Reports, Optics Letters, Applied 
Physics Letters, Journal of Biomedical Optics, etc) and 58 conference proceedings 
articles. His team also filed and/or registered 34 domestic/international patents. His 
Google Scholar h-index and citations have reached 40 and over 6,400, 
respectively. His group’s works have been selected for the 2016 and 2017 Seno 
Medical Best Paper Award Finalists in Photons Plus Ultrasound Conference (the 
largest conference in the field), Photonics West, SPIE. He also co-authored six book 
chapters. He has currently served as an Editorial Board Member of Scientific Reports 
(Nature Publishing Group), Photoacoustics Journal, Applied Science, and American 
Journal of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, and a Guest Editor of Journal of 
Biomedical Optics, BioMed Research International, and IEEE Pulse Magazine. He has 
served as an Organizing Committee for the conference on “Photons plus Ultrasound: 
Imaging and Sensing” and “High-Speed Biomedical Imaging and Spectroscopy: Toward 
Big Data Instrumentation and Management” held annually under auspices of SPIE 
(Photonics West) and as a Theme Co-Chair for the 39th and 40th Annual International 
Conference of the IEEE EMBS. He has served as a journal reviewer >100, including 
for Nature Photonics, Nature Communication, Light Science & Applications, Nano Letters, 
ACS Nano, Scientific Reports, Optics Letters, Optics Express, Journal of Biomedical 
Optics, IEEE Transactions, and etc. He has delivered a numerous invited presentations 
(>130) in technical conferences and seminars in universities. His research interests are 

-----
the development of novel biomedical imaging techniques including photoacoustic 
tomography, 
ultrasound-modulated 
optical 
tomography, 
fluorescence 
imaging, 
ultrasound imaging, and laser speckle contrast imaging. Particularly, his lab developed 
photoacoustic gastro-intestinal tract imaging using organic agents, photoacoustic 
cystography, clinical 
photoacoustic/ultrasound 
imaging 
scanner 
(clinically 
translated 
with 
Alpinion 
Medical), fast 
optical-resolution 
photoacoustic 
microscopy based on a 2-axis water-proof MEMS scanner (licensed to MGB; spin-
off company, PAMsTECH and OPTICHO), virtual intraoperative photoacoustic surgical 
microscopy, raster scanning based photoacoustic whole body imaging of small 
animals,  combined photoacoustic and optical coherence tomography using a single 
pulsed broadband laser source, acoustic-radiation force induced ultrasound-modulated 
optical tomography, etc.  
 

-----
