6/12/2017
E. Fred Schubert | Faculty at Rensselaer
http://faculty.rpi.edu/node/36068
1/2
Navigate RPI ▾ Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
FACULTY
ACULTY
E. Fred Schubert
E. Fred Schubert
Professor and Constellation Chair, Future Chips, Electrical, Computer, and Systems Engineering
Professor and Constellation Chair, Future Chips, Electrical, Computer, and Systems Engineering
After completing his master’s degree, Schubert spent four years studying compound semiconductor crystal growth as a scientific staff
member at the Max Planck Institute for Solid State Research. He later joined AT&T Bell Laboratories in Holmdel, N.J., where he spent two
years as a postdoctoral fellow. From 1988 to 1995, Schubert served as principal investigator in the Research Division of AT&T Bell
Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J. In 1995, he joined Boston University and was appointed to a full professorship in the Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering. He also was named an affiliated member of the Photonics Center. At BU, he was responsible for GaN
materials characterization and the fabrication of compound semiconductor devices – particularly GaN­based devices. He continued to serve
as an adjunct professor for Boston University from 2002 to 2003. In 2002, Schubert was appointed Senior Constellation Chair of the Future
Chip Constellation and Professor in the Department of Electrical, Computer, and Systems Engineering at Rensselaer. Schubert authored the
books, Light­Emitting Diodes, 2nd Edition (2006); Light­Emitting Diodes, (2003); and Doping in III­V Semiconductors, (1993); and edited the
book, Delta Doping of Semiconductors, (1996), all from Cambridge University Press. Schubert also has published more than 200 research
papers, has contributed several book chapters, and is inventor or co­inventor of about 28 issued U.S. patents. He was elected a Fellow of
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), American Physical Society (APS), Optical Society of America (OSA), and the
International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE). He also has received the Senior Research Award of the Humboldt Foundation, Discover
magazine’s Discover Award for Technological Innovation, Research & Development Magazine’s R&D 100 Award, and Boston University’s
Provost Innovation Fund Award. Schubert’s primary research interest is in the field of compound semiconductor materials and devices. His
studies include epitaxial growth, materials characterization, device processing and fabrication, device design, and device characterization.
Devices include heterobipolar transistors, lasers and light­emitting diodes for communication, lighting, and sensing applications. Schubert
has made pioneering contributions in compound semiconductor materials and devices. His accomplishments include the discovery and first
analysis of alloy broadening, the development of delta doped structures, superlattice doping in p­type GaN and AlGaN for increased
acceptor activation, compositional parabolic grading for elimination of band discontinuities in unipolar heterojunctions, and crystallographic
etching of GaN. He demonstrated the first resonant­cavity light­emitting diode (RCLED), which is the first practical device taking advantage
of spontaneous emission enhancement; he also showed the first spontaneous emission and absorption enhancement in Er­doped Si/SiO2
microcavities. In 2008, his leadership of a team of faculty investigators coming from multiple universities resulted in the awarding of the
Engineering Research Center for Smart Lighting by the National Science Foundation. In 2008 and 2009, he served as Founding Director,
Director, and Principal Investigator of the Rensselaer­Polytechnic­Institute­led center. The center has brought more than $ 40 million to
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. His students have been extraordinarily successful with several being faculty members in academia and
several holding leadership positions in industry. Three of his graduate­student advisees were finalists in the $ 30,000 Lemelson Student
Prize competition and two of his advisees won the Prize.
Education
Education
Ph. D., Electrical Engineering, with honors, University of Stuttgart, Germany, 1986. M.S., Electrical Engineering, with honors, University of
Stuttgart, 1981. B.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Stuttgart, 1978.
Research Focus
Research Focus
compound semiconductor materials and devices
Contact
Contact
Schubert@rpi.edu
http://www.rpi.edu/~schubert/
Recent News
Recent News
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences Cites Work by Rensselaer Professor E. Fred Schubert in Background Materials for 2014 Nobel Prize in
Physics
Privacy Policy | Media Policy | Copyright Notice | Your Feedback | Contact Us | Search
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI), 110 Eighth Street, Troy, NY USA 12180, (518) 276­6000
Login

-----
6/12/2017
E. Fred Schubert | Faculty at Rensselaer
http://faculty.rpi.edu/node/36068
2/2

-----
