Professor Edward Sargent
http://www.provost.utoronto.ca/awards/uprofessors/complete/Professor_Edward_Sargent.htm[8/3/2018 12:48:48 PM]
Section Menu
Arbor Awards
Awards of Excellence
Gordon Cressy Student
Leadership Awards
President's Teaching
Award
University of Toronto
Teaching Fellowships
University of Toronto
Early Career Teaching
Award
University Professors
Distinguished
Professors
Provincial and National
Teaching Awards
Research and
Scholarship Awards
 > Vice-President and Provost > Awards & Honours > University Professors > Complete List
of University Professors > Professor Edward Sargent
Professor Edward Sargent
University
Professors 2015
Faculty of Applied
Science &
Engineering, 
Edward S. Rogers
Sr. Department of
Electrical and
Computer
Engineering
Research Interess:
The application of
nanomaterials in susainable energy and sensing
Biography
Professor Edward (Ted) Sargent earned his B.Sc. in Engineering Physics from
Queen’s University in 1995 and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE)
from the University of Toronto in 1998. He was appointed Assistant Professor in ECE
at the University of Toronto in 1998; Associate Professor in 2002; then appointed Full
Professor in 2005. Sargent was Visiting Professor of Nanotechnology and Photonics at
MIT from 2004-2005. He served as Associate Chair, Research for the Edward S.
Rogers Sr. Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering from 2009-2012 and
currently as Vice-Dean, Research for the Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering.
In his research, Professor Sargent has deployed innovations in materials chemistry to
address key challenges in sustainable energy. Prior to his work, the optoelectronics
community built devices for light sensing and energy conversion principally using
materials composed of perfect, pure semiconductors known as epitaxial crystals.
Sargent devoted his attention to making practical devices using ‘soft materials’ –

-----
Professor Edward Sargent
http://www.provost.utoronto.ca/awards/uprofessors/complete/Professor_Edward_Sargent.htm[8/3/2018 12:48:48 PM]
materials that could conveniently and cost-effectively be processed from the solution
(liquid) phase. By tackling this challenge, Sargent set the stage to make path-breaking
advances at the forefront of this new field.
Professor Sargent focused on colloidal quantum dots (CQDs), solution-processed
nanometersized particles of single-crystal semiconductor. In 2005, Sargent reported
the first solution-processed infrared solar cell. This seminal work has become
synonymous with full-spectrum solar cells: photovoltaic devices matched to the sun’s
broad range of wavelengths. His Nature Materials paper on the subject from that year
has been cited over 1000 times. Professor Sargent has improved the efficiency of
CQD solar cells by orders of magnitude since that time. As of 2015, Sargent’s solar
cells are the highest performing CQD solar cells in the world and the most efficient
solution-processed infrared solar cells in existence.
Ted Sargent has also built an international reputation for his work on highly sensitive
detection of light using solution-processed materials. He showed how to build
remarkably sensitive infrared light detectors that can readily be integrated with silicon
electronics. His report in Nature in 2006 constituted the first solution-processed device
to exceed in performance its conventional, single-crystal counterpart. In 2009, he
reported in Science the first direct electronic observation of the then-emerging
phenomenon of multi-exciton generation.
Professor Sargent has made multiple breakthroughs in novel materials and devices for
sustainable energy and innovation technology. He has disseminated his advances in
the top interdisciplinary scientific journals and has addressed a broad audience on the
impact of modern nanotechnology through his widely translated book The Dance of
Molecules. Professor Sargent’s works have been cited over 12,000 times and he has
an h-index of 59. He has given invited institutional lectures at Stanford, MIT, UPenn,
Berkeley, Caltech, Harvard, Cornell, Columbia, UCLA, Penn State, University of
Texas-Austin, Georgetown, and UCSB.
Professor Sargent is the founding Program Director of the new global network Bio-
Inspired Solar Energy recently announced by the Canadian Institute for Advanced
Research. The network comprises a global research team from U of T, Cambridge,
Amsterdam, TU Dresden, Harvard, Princeton, and Berkeley, UBC, U of A, Glasgow,
University of Hong Kong, EPFL, and Laval. Professor Sargent is also the founder and
CTO of InVisage Technologies, a company that produces quantum dot-based image
sensors.
Ted Sargent was elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) in 2009; named Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE) in 2011; and elected Fellow of the Canadian Academy of
Engineering in 2014. Sargent was awarded the Steacie Prize in 2012 for his innovative
research in solar cell technology. In 2014 he was elected Fellow of the Canadian
Academy of Engineering and the Royal Society of Canada.
 
© University of Toronto | Accessibility | www.provost.utoronto.ca | Contacts | University Switchboard: (416) 978-2011
University of Toronto, 27 King's College Circle, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 1A1

-----
Professor Edward Sargent
http://www.provost.utoronto.ca/awards/uprofessors/complete/Professor_Edward_Sargent.htm[8/3/2018 12:48:48 PM]

-----
