Welcome
Minyue Fu
Professor of Electrical Engineering
Fellow of IEEE
School of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science
University of Newcastle
Callaghan, NSW 2308 Australia
Biography
Brief biography
Curriculum vitae
Research
Research areas
Publications
Research projects
Teaching
List of courses
Undergraduate projects
Photos
Samples of snapshots
Links
Research Centre (CDSC)
School of EE&CS
Callaghan Campus Map
      Last update: 20/11/2015
Page 1 of 1
Minyue Fu: Main Page
9/8/2017
http://www.eng.newcastle.edu.au/~mf140/home/minyue.html

-----
Home
Curriculum Vitae
Brief Biography
Minyue Fu received his Bachelor's Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Science and 
Technology of China, Hefei, China, in 1982, and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from 
the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1983 and 1987, respectively.
From 1983 to 1987, he held a teaching assistantship and a research assistantship at the Uiniversity of 
Wisconsin-Madison. He worked as a Computer Engineering Consultant at Nicolet Instruments, Inc., 
Madison, Wisconsin, during 1987. From 1987 to 1989, he served as an Assistant Professor in the 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan. For the 
summer of 1989, he was employed by the Universite Catholoque de Louvain, Belgium, as a Maitre de 
Conferences Invited. He joined the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the University of 
Newcastle, Australia, in 1989 and was promoted to a Chair Professor in Electrical Engineering in 2002. He 
has served as the Head of Department for Electrical and Computer Engineering and Head of School of 
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science over a period of 7 years. In addition, he was a Visiting 
Associate Professor at University of Iowa in 1995-1996, a Visiting Professor at Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore, 2002, and Visiting Professor at Tokyo University in 2003. He has held a 
ChangJiang Visiting Professorship at Shandong University, a visiting Professorship at South China 
University of Technology, and a Qian-ren Professorship at Zhejiang University in China.
He was elected to a Fellow of IEEE in late 2003. His main research interests include control systems, 
signal processing and communications. His current research projects include networked control systems, 
multi-agent systems, smart electricity networks and super-precision positioning control systems. He has 
been an Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, IEEE Transactions on Signal 
Processing, Automatica, and Journal of Optimization and Engineering.
Page 1 of 1
Minyue Fu: Biography Page
9/8/2017
http://www.eng.newcastle.edu.au/~mf140/home/Pages/Bio.html

-----
Selected Publications
Complete Publications
Publications by Areas
Control Systems
Signal Processing
Communications
Sample Research Projects
Networked Control Systems
Smart Electricity Grid
Micro-actuator Control
My Research Areas
My research interests cover three, sort of related, areas. My work in Control Systems 
has been accumulated over two decades of stubborn pursude of "good" methods for 
control design and analysis, mostly to do with dynamic systems with uncertainties in 
their models or unreliable communications. My latest interest in this area lies in three 
topics: control over communication networks , smart electricity networks and high 
precision control using micro-actuators.
I have also worked in Signal Processing for quite long. What facinates me about this 
area is that ad-hoc tools used by "engineers" can often be made rigorous and enhanced 
by using some simple mathematics. I work on model-based signal processing, studying 
estimation problems to do with dynamic systems. I am currently chairing a signal 
processing research program in a research centre specialised in complex dynamic 
systems. My recent interests include network-based state estimation, system 
identification with communication constraints and signal encoding with time delay 
constraints.
Digital Communications is an area I touched upon in recent years, but I am a slow 
learner here. Problems which catch my attention are the ones to do with fundamental 
limitations and those related to dynamic systems. I try to use my limited knowledge in 
Control Systems and Signal Processing to look at coding, decoding and equalisation 
problems with a different perspective. Once a while, something interesting pops up this 
way. My current/rencent interests are in communication networks for smart electricity 
grids, turbo decoding/detection and low-density parity-check codes.
Home
Research Centre (CDSC)
Page 1 of 1
Minyue Fu: Research Page
9/8/2017
http://www.eng.newcastle.edu.au/~mf140/home/Pages/research.html

-----
