Professor Guang-Hong Yang
Northeastern University, China
Email: Prof. Guang-Hong Yang
Biography
Professor Guang-Hong Yang received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in 
mathematics from Northeast University of Technology, China, in 1983 and 1986, 
respectively, and the Ph.D. degree in control engineering from Northeastern 
University, China (formerly, Northeast University of Technology), in 1994. He was 
a Lecturer/Associate Professor with Northeastern University from 1986 to 1995. He 
joined the Nanyang Technological University in 1996 as a Postdoctoral Fellow. 
From 2001 to 2005, he was a Research Scientist/Senior Research Scientist with 
the National University of Singapore. He is currently a Professor and Director of the 
Institute of Control Theory and Navigation technology, at the College of 
Information Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, China. His current 
research interests include fault tolerant control, fault detection and isolation, 
robust control, nonlinear control and flight control systems design.
Dr. Yang has published over 300 fully-refereed papers in technical journals and 
conference proceedings that include 155 fully-refereed high quality journal articles, 
and 3 monographs. He is an Associate Editor for the IET Control Theory & 
Applications, the IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, the International Journal of 
Control, Automation, and Systems (IJCAS), and the International Journal of 
Systems Science (IJSS). He is the Chair of the IEEE Harbin Section Control 
Systems Society Chapter, and has been General Chair/Program Chair of the 
Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC) since 2008.
Title 
Fault detection for T-S fuzzy systems with unknown membership 
functions: a switching technique based approach
Abstract 
Fault detection (FD) filter design problems for T-S fuzzy systems with known 
membership functions have been widely studied in recent years by using parallel 
distributed compensator (PDC) strategy. Note that, if the membership functions 
Page 1 of 2
Professor Guang-Hong Yang
15/5/2017
http://ieeeiciea.org/2014/Prof.Guang-HongYang.html

-----
are allowed to be unknown, then a fuzzy system may describe a wide class of 
nonlinear systems. However, in this case, PDC strategy based FD schemes cannot 
be applied. On the other hand, index and norm are always used to characterize the 
fault sensitivity performance and disturbance attenuation performance, and the 
maximization of index can lead to matrix inequalities that are nonconvex in the FD 
filter parameters. Therefore, how to design / FD filters for T-S fuzzy systems with 
unknown membership functions is a major challenge. In this talk, a switching 
technique based / FD filter design method is introduced for T-S fuzzy systems with 
unknown membership functions. First, based on some time-domain inequalities, a 
novel weighting matrix design criterion is provided to transform the fault sensitivity 
specification into an constraint. Then, a switching mechanism that depends on the 
lower and upper bounds of the unknown membership functions is given to 
construct an FD filter with varying gains. It is shown that the switching-type FD 
filter with varying gains can achieve a better FD performance than the linear FD 
filter with fixed gains.
Page 2 of 2
Professor Guang-Hong Yang
15/5/2017
http://ieeeiciea.org/2014/Prof.Guang-HongYang.html

-----
