James Lam
Chair Professor of Control Engineering
BSc (1st Hons) Manc; MPhil; PhD Cantab; CMath; CSci; CEng; FIMA; FIET; FIMechE; FIEEE 
Professor J. Lam received a first class BSc degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Manchester in 1983, and was 
awarded the Ashbury Scholarship, the A.H. Gibson Prize, and the H. Wright Baker Prize for his academic performance. He later 
obtained the MPhil and PhD degrees from the University of Cambridge in 1985 and 1988, respectively. For his doctoral and post-
doctoral research, he was supported by the Croucher Foundation Scholarship (1984) and Fellowship (1990). He is the recipient of an 
Outstanding Researcher Award (2008) of the University of Hong Kong, a Distinguished Visiting Fellow (2010) of the Royal Academy 
of Engineering of the United Kingdom, and is a Cheung Kong Chair Professor of the Ministry of Education, China (2013). 
Prior to joining the University of Hong Kong in 1993, Professor Lam held lectureships at now the City University of Hong Kong and the 
University of Melbourne. He was a Visiting Fellow of the Research School of Physical Sciences and Engineering, Australian National 
University. Professor Lam has close academic association with a number of universities in Mainland China. He is Guest Professor of 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Shandong University, Central South University, Harbin Institute of Technology, East 
China University of Science and Technology, , Southwest University of Nationalities, and was Concurrent Professor of the Northeastern 
University, Consulting Professor of South China University of Technology.
On the professional service side, Professor Lam is a Chartered Mathematician, Chartered Scientist, Chartered Engineer, Fellow of 
Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications, Fellow of Institution of Engineering and Technology, Fellow of Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers, and Fellow of Institution of Mechanical Engineers. He also joined other learned societies as Fellow of the 
Cambridge Philosophical Society and Fellow of the Cambridge Commonwealth Society. Professor Lam is Editor-in-Chief of IET 
Control Theory and Applications and Journal of The Franklin Institute, Subject Editor of Journal of Sound and Vibration, Editor of 
Asian Journal of Control, Section Editor (Systems and Control) of Cogent Engineering, Associate Editor of Automatica, International 
Journal of Systems Science, International Journal of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Multidimensional Systems and Signal 
Processing, Proc. IMechE Part I: Journal of Systems and Control Engineering, Conference Editorial Board of the IEEE Control Systems 
Society, editorial member of Open Electrical and Electronic Engineering Journal, Open Automation and Control Journal, Journal of 
Control Science and Engineering, Dynamics of Continuous, Discrete and Impulsive Systems: Series B (Applications & Algorithms), 
International Journal of Systems, Control and Communications, Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Central European 
Journal of Engineering, Systems, and Systems Science and Control Engineering. He is a member of the Technical Committee on 
Networked Systems, IFAC. He served as Editor-in-Chief of the IEE Proceedings: Control Theory and Applications, Associated Editor of 
IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, and as member of the IFAC Technical Committee on Control Design. He is a reviewer of the 
Mathematical Reviews of the American Mathematical Society. Professor Lam also serves as Panel Member (Engineering) of the 
Research Grants Council, HKSAR.
Professor Lam has research interests in model reduction, robust control and filtering, delay, singular systems, Markovian jump systems, 
multidimensional systems, networked control systems, and biological networks. 
His Erdös number is 3. 
Professor Lam's Personal Homepage
Mathematics Resources: 
 MathForum
 Math Reference Project
 PlanetMath
 Wolfram MathWorld
Page 1 of 1
9/8/2017
http://web.hku.hk/~jlam/

-----
