Krishna Saraswat
Rickey/Nielsen Professor in the School of 
Engineering
Professor of Electrical Engineering
Professor of Materials Science & Engineering 
(by courtesy)
  Paul G. Allen Building, Rm. 326X 
     420 Via Palou, MS 4075, Stanford, CA 94305-4075
  (650) 725-3610 Phone
  (650) 723-4659 Fax
saraswat@stanford.edu
    Prof. Saraswat received his B.E. degree in Electronics in 1968 from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, 
India, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering in 1969 and 1974 respectively from Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA. Professor Saraswat stayed at Stanford as a researcher and was appointed Professor of Electrical Engineering 
in 1983. He also has an honorary appointment of an Adjunct Professor at the Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, 
India since January 2004 and a Visiting Professor during the summer of 2007 at IIT Bombay, India. During 2000-2007 he was 
Associate Director of the NSF/SRC Center for Environmentally Benign Semiconductor Manufacturing. He has been a 
technical advisor, board member and consultant to several industrial organizations in USA, Asia and Europe. He has also 
advised several academic and government organizations world wide. 
     Professor Saraswat's research interests are in new and innovative materials, structures, and process technology of silicon, 
germanium and III-V devices and interconnects fo nanoelectronics and solar cells. Areas of his current interest are: new 
device structures and technology to continue scaling MOS transistors and non volatile memories, silicon compatible optical 
interconnections, and high efficiency and low cost solar cells.
     During 1969-70, he worked on microwave transistors at Texas Instruments. Returning to Stanford in 1971, he did his Ph.D. 
on high voltage MOS devices and circuits. After graduating he joined Stanford University as a Research Associate in 1975 
and later became a Professor of Electrical Engineering in 1983. For the next 15 years, Prof. Saraswat worked on modeling of 
CVD of silicon, conduction in polysilicon, diffusion in silicides, contact resistance, interconnect delay and 2-D oxidation effects 
in silicon. He pioneered the technologies for aluminum/titanium layered interconnects, CVD of tungsten silicide MOS gates, 
CVD tungsten MOS gates and tunable workfunction SiGe MOS gates. During the late 80's he became interested in the 
economics and technology of single wafer manufacturing. He developed equipment and simulators for single wafer thermal 
processing, deposition and etching and technology for the in-situ measurements and real-time control. Jointly with Texas 
Instruments a microfactory for single wafer manufacturing was demonstrated in 1993. Since the mid 90's he has been working 
on new materials, devices and interconnects for scaling MOS technology to sub-10 nm regime. He has pioneered several new 
concepts of 3-D ICs with multiple layers of heterogeneous devices. His group demonstrated the first high performance 
germanium MOSFET with high-k dielectrics. He has been working on integration of germanium on silicon for high performance 
MOSFETs and optical interconnects. He has recently started research on high efficiency low cost solar cells. 
     Prof. Saraswat has supervised more than 85 doctoral students, 25 post doctoral scholars and has authored or co-authored 
15 patents and over 750 technical papers, of which 10 have received Best Paper Award. He is a Life Fellow of the IEEE. He 
received the Thomas Callinan Award from The Electrochemical Society in 2000 for his contributions to the dielectric science 
and technology, the 2004 IEEE Andrew Grove Award for seminal contributions to silicon process technology, Inventor 
Recognition Award from MARCO/FCRP in 2007, the Technovisionary Award from the India Semiconductor Association in 
2007, BITS Pilani Distinguished Alumnus Awards in 2012 and the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) Researcher of 
the Year Award in 2012. He is listed by ISI as one of the Highly Cited Authors in his field. 
Page 1 of 1
index.html
9/8/2017
http://saraswatgroup.stanford.edu//

-----
The scaling approach that has been the technological mainstay of the semiconductor industry for the last 30 years is beginning 
to face limits to continued miniaturization with commensurate performance enhancement. Prof. Saraswat has been working on 
new and innovative materials, structures, and process technology of silicon, germanium and III-V devices and interconnects for 
VLSI and nanoelectronics. Areas of his current interest are: new device structures to continue scaling MOS transistors, 
3-dimentional ICs with multiple layers of heterogeneous devices, metal and optical interconnections and high efficiency and 
low cost solar cells. 
CURRENT MAJOR PROJECTS: 
Materials, Structures, Devices Physics and Technology for Nanoelectronics 
Si CMOS technology has dominated the microelectronics industry, with continued scaling. However, future Si CMOS scaling is 
reaching practical and fundamental limits. To go beyond these limits novel materials and structures are being aggressively 
studied. A channel material with high µ and therefore high injection velocity can increase drive current and reduce delay. 
Currently, strained-Si is the dominant technology for high performance MOSFETs and increasing the strain provides a viable 
solution to scaling. However, performance enhancement due to strain is beginning to saturate with scaling of nanoscale 
MOSFETs. Looking into future scaling it becomes important to look at higher mobility materials, like Ge and III-V together with 
innovative device structures which may perform better than even very highly strained Si. Heterogeneous integration of the high 
mobility Ge and III-V materials on Si with novel device structures can take us to sub-10 nm regime. However there are many 
daunting questions. Ge PMOS shows much promise but the NMOS has many problems to be solved. Similarly there are many 
examples of high performance III-V NMOS, but PMOS is still problematic. Is Ge PMOS and III-V NMOS integration on Si 
feasible or a headache for the manufacturing folks? Can we have all Ge or all III-V CMOS or it is just a fantasy? Prof. 
SaraswatÕs research is trying to answer these questions. 
Interconnects for Nanoelectronics 
Continuous scaling of VLSI circuits can pose significant problems for interconnects, especially for those responsible for long 
distance communication on a high performance chip. Our modeling predicts that the situation is worse than anticipated in the 
ITRS, which assumes that the resistivity of copper will not change appreciably with scaling in the future. We show that 
resistance of interconnect wires in light of scaling induced increase in electron surface scattering, fractional cross section area 
occupied by the high resistivity barrier and realistic interconnect operation temperature will lead to a significant rise in the 
effective resistivity of Cu. As a result both power and delay of these interconnects is likely to rise significantly in the future. In 
the light of various metal interconnect limitations, alternate solutions need to be pursued. His group focuses on two such 
solutions, optical interconnects and three-dimensional (3-D) ICs with multiple active Si layers. 
Photovoltaics 
High Efficiency attribute of solar cells is a powerful enabler to reduce the $/Wp metric by cutting across the entire PV supply 
chain. In addition, a higher efficiency cell, especially if it is higher Voc, can result in a much larger energy yield (KWHr/KWp) 
per given efficiency or peak power. These factors go a long way in enabling the goals set by U.S. Department of Energy of 1. 
delivering modules at under $0.40/W, 2. reducing the BOS cost, 3. ultimately achieving an LCOE of 5 cents/KWhr. To meet 
these requirements we are developing a novel junctionless solar cell using metal/insulator/semiconductor (MIS) structures as 
carrier selective contacts on Si, GaAs and other absorbers. 
AFFILIATED Ph.D. STUDENTS: 
Shashank Gupta
Research: Germanium Based Laser and Modulator for Photonic Interconnects.
Silicon photonics is considered to be a key enabling technology for future CMOS systems since it has the potential to alleviate 
the bandwidth-power-density bottleneck of electrical interconnects. In this work we are developing semiconductor beam 
structures for light emission and modulation applications. For example, we consider a strained crossed nanobeam structure for 
a low-threshold germanium laser. It includes a germanium (Ge) photonic crystal nanobeam resonator and a silicon nitride (SiN) 
stressor nanobeam in the perpendicular direction. While the photonic crystal nanobeam enables light confinement in a 
subwavelength volume with minimal optical loss, the SiN nanobeam induces high tensile strain in the small region where the 
optical mode is tightly confined. As maintaining a small optical loss and a high tensile strain reduces the required pumping for 
achieving net optical gain beyond cavity losses, this technique can be used to develop an extremely low-threshold Ge laser 
source. We are also developing a compact Ge electro-absorption modulator (EAM) based on Franz-Keldysh effect according 
to which an applied electric field causes band-tilting thereby increasing the absorption coefficient in the weakly absorbing 
regime. The Ge EAM devices are integrated in SOI Si platform. These devices have improved performance including higher 
modulation speed, higher efficiency and lower capacitance, owing to the strong confinement of optical and electrical field 
Page 1 of 3
index.html
9/8/2017
http://saraswatgroup.stanford.edu//research.html

-----
enabled by the submicron Ge/Si waveguide platform. 
Raisul Islam and Koosha Nassiri Nazif
Research: Junction-less multi-material high efficiency low cost solar cell.
To meet the requirements of high efficiency and low cost we are developing a novel junctionless solar cell technology using 
metal/insulator/semiconductor (MIS) structures as carrier selective contacts on silicon, germanium, III-Vs and other absorbers. 
In this novel approach diffused p-n junction are replaced by MIS heterojunctions using oxides such as ZnO or TiO2 and NiO, 
which have band lineups such that it enables a selective contact for either electron/hole while reflecting the other carrier away 
from the contact. This structure, which eliminates the need of p-n junctions, is a low cost solution to a high efficiency solar cell. 
Using this approach we conceived the idea of a 3 terminal multijunction solar cell using MIS heterojunctions. This structure, 
which eliminates the need of p-n junctions, is a low cost solution to a high efficiency solar cell where two subcells can work 
independently. The design is not limited by lattice matching or current matching. Thus each sub cell can be optimized 
independently for maximum efficiency. 
Archana Kumar 
Research: Integration of III-V FETs on Silicon
As scaling of Silicon CMOS becomes increasingly difficult, use of alternate materials with high carrier mobilities is being 
explored extensively. Despite burgeoning interest in III-Vs for realizing high performance transistors at low power, III-V 
MOSFETs have been plagued by (a) poor surface passivation resulting in high Dit; (b) poor PMOS performance, which makes 
realizing CMOS in a single material system difficult; (c) low density of states (DOS) for electrons; (d) poor dopant activation in 
the source-drain (S/D) and (e) high contact resistance. We are developing novel solutions to overcome these problems. We 
are working on the 6.1-6.2 
 lattice constant system with InGaSb as the channel material because of its advantages in terms of 
band engineering and high mobility/offsets for both electrons and holes. The goal is to achieve high electron/hole mobility in 
the same channel material for n- and p-MOS devices through the optimization of surface passivation, stoichiometry, 
heterostructure design and novel contact/interface engineering. Hetero-integration on a silicon substrate is one of the key 
challenges in enabling III-V CMOS. III-Vs also inherently suffer from degraded short-channel effects and are more vulnerable 
to variability issues. Alternative device architectures such as SOI gate-all-around finFETs are needed to improve the device 
performance. Current work focuses on using the rapid-melt-growth (RMG) technique to fabricate III-V FinFETs with multiple 
channel materials on a silicon substrate. 
Ju Hyung Nam
Research: Selective Heteroepitaxial Growth of Ge on Si for Electronic and Optical Devices.
Recently Ge has emerged as a viable candidate to augment Si for continued scaling of CMOS devices and providing high 
performance on- and off-chip opticle interconnects. However, Ge substrate is not easy to handle and is not easily available. 
Therefore to utilize above mentioned advantages of Ge it is imperative to develop technology for heterogeneous integration of 
Ge on Si-based platform. It is crucial to be able to grow high quality Ge layers selectively. Ge has large (4.2%) lattice mismatch 
with Si, which causes strain to Ge layers grown directly on Si which results in high density of dislocations and rough surface. In 
our past work we have demonstrated that growth of Ge on Si by Multiple Hydrogen Annealing for Heteroepitaxy (MHAH) 
technique yields very low dislocation density and surface roughness. In this work we are focusing on selective growth of Ge on 
Si through a SiO2 windows combined with H2 anneal and extend it to grow Ge laterally on SiO2 for GOI applications. This will 
allow fabrication of high performance MOSFETs and optical devices in Ge integrated on Si with future promise of continued 
CMOS scaling. 
Pranav Ramesh
Research: Metal/Insulator/Semiconductor Contacts for Photovoltics and Nanoelectronics.
As device scaling continues, parasitic source resistance largely dominated by contact resistance, is beginning to limit the 
device performance. Specific contact resistivity of a metal-semiconductor (M/S) contact is dependent on the Schottky barrier 
height, and the electrically active dopant density N at that interface. In M/S contacts the metal Fermi level is pinned at the 
charge neutrality level, ECNL, resulting in fixed electron and hole Schottky barrier heights. To obtain low contact resistivity it is 
essential to reduce Schottky barrier height. Historically the method to reduce contact resistivity is by increasing N to > 
1E20/cm3 thereby thinning the barrier, thus allowing more tunneling current. This method works well for n type Si and p-Ge 
which can be doped heavily. However, it is not very practical for n-Ge, p-Si, many III-Vs and 2D materials because of inability 
to dope them heavily. We are investigating Fermi level depinning by inserting a thin dielectric between the metal and 
semiconductor and reduce barrier height. The metal electron wavefunction now decays in the insulator resulting in fewer MIGS 
thus depinning the Fermi level, which now pins on the insulator. Hence metal workfunction can now be used to tune the 
effective barrier height. For n-type ohmic contacts, metals with a low metal workfunction and insulator with ~0 conduction band 
offset (ZnO, TiO2, SnO2) with semiconductor should result in a near zero barrier height to electrons. For p-type ohmic 
contacts, metals with a high work function and insulator with ~0 valence band offset (NiO, CuAlO2) with semiconductor would 
be desirable. This method has been used to obtain low barrier height and thus low contact resistivity in Si, Ge and III-V 
semiconductors and should prove to be very useful for 2D materials. 
Gautam Shine
Research: Low Resistance ohmic contacts to Ge and III-V Devices
For the nanoscale transistors in Ge, III-V and carbon based MOSFETs and optical devices low resistance contacts must be 
developed. The specific contact resistivity of many of these materials is too high primarily due to low doping density and Fermi 
level pinning. MIS contacts solve this problem using interfacial layers that depin the Fermi level leading to engineering of the 
Schottky barrier height and thus achieve low contact resistance. Several mechanisms, such as metal induced gap states 
(MIGS) and dipole formation have been proposed to explain the effect of Fermi level unpinning. Despite the large body of 
experimental data, there is no consensus on the underlying physics and mechanisms responsible for Fermi level unpinning. In 
Page 2 of 3
index.html
9/8/2017
http://saraswatgroup.stanford.edu//research.html

-----
this project the tunneling transport is being treated quantum mechanically using free electron approach using transfer matrix 
formalism for solution of the Schrodinger equation self-consistent with the Poisson solution for near equilibrium transport 
through tunnel barriers. The effect of doping density, different barrier materials, interface and fixed charges, interface dipoles 
and metal work functions is included. This will help to predict optimized tunnel barrier materials and device structures that can 
be used to minimize contact resistance. 
Junkyo Suh
Research: Nanoscale Germanium MOSFETs
Si CMOS technology has dominated the microelectronics industry, with continued scaling. However, future Si CMOS scaling is 
reaching practical and fundamental limits. To go beyond these limits novel higher mobility materials like Ge are being 
aggressively studied to continue scaling of MOSFETs. Development of MOS technology in these materials has been largely 
possible due to advances in the high-k/metal gate stack technology. High-k dielectrics with low interface state density (Dit) 
have been demonstrated to passivate the channel with atomic layer deposition (ALD) as the preferred technique. Therefore, 
Ge MOSFET is quickly becoming the choice for future CMOS. However, currently, very little is understood with respect to 
reliability of these new CMOS device components (high-k gate dielectrics and advanced channel materials). In this study, we 
propose develop technology to fabricate nanoscale Ge MOSFETs with metal gate/ high-k gate dielectric and characterize the 
radiation effects of this new class transistors for the first time and establish a fundamental understanding of how to improve 
their reliability and radiation tolerance through high mobility channel/high-k gate stack material synthesis and design 
enhancements. 
Page 3 of 3
index.html
9/8/2017
http://saraswatgroup.stanford.edu//research.html

-----
