Lei Ying,
Professor
• About Me
• Post-Docs/Students
• Research
• Awards
• Teaching
• Activities
• Contact Information
Lei Ying received his B.E. degree from Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, China, and his M.S. and Ph.D in Electrical and 
Computer Engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign. He currently is a Professor at the School of 
Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering at Arizona State 
University, and an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on 
Information Theory. 
His research is broadly in the interplay of complex stochastic 
systems and big-data, including large-scale 
communication/computing systems for big-data processing, 
private data marketplaces, and large-scale graph mining. He 
coauthored books Communication Networks: An Optimization, 
Control and Stochastic Networks Perspective, Cambridge 
University Press, 2014; and Diffusion Source Localization in 
Large Networks, Synthesis Lectures on Communication 
Networks, Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2018. 
He won the Young Investigator Award from the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) in 2009 
and NSF CAREER Award in 2010. He was the Northrop Grumman Assistant Professor in the 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Iowa State University from 2010 to 2012. His 
papers have received the best paper award at IEEE INFOCOM 2015 (paper), the Kenneth C. Sevcik 
Outstanding Student Paper Award at ACM SIGMETRICS/IFIP Performance 2016 (paper), been 
selected in ACM TKDD Speical Issue "Best Papers of KDD 2016" (paper), received the WiOpt'18 
Best Student Paper Award, and selected for Fast-Track Review for TNSE at IEEE INFOCOM 2018 (7 
out of 312 accepted papers were invited).
His student, Weina Wang, now is an Assistant 
Professor at the Computer Science Department 
at Carnegie Mellon University.
Here is his Google Scholar Profile.
Immediate Openings for Postdocs and Ph.D. 
Students: Openings for Post-Docs and Ph.D. 
students in stochastic networks are available at 
the School of Electrical, Computer and Energy 
Engineering at Arizona State University. 
Page 1 of 2
Welcome to Lei Ying's Homepage
7/2/2019
http://www.public.asu.edu/~lying6/

-----
Students with strong backgrounds in networking, queueing theory, machine learning, control or math 
are encouraged to apply.
Copyright (c) 2008 Sitename.com. All rights reserved. Design by FreeCSSTemplates.org.
Page 2 of 2
Welcome to Lei Ying's Homepage
7/2/2019
http://www.public.asu.edu/~lying6/

-----
