Prof. Baizhan Li, PhD, FRICS, FCIBSE, Professor of Built Environment, Chongqing University, P. R. China  
<baizhanli09@gmail.com or baizhanli@cqu.edu.cn> 
Baizhan Li is a professor in built environment. He is 
currently the 
Dean of The Faculty of Urban Construction and 
Environmental Engineering in Chongqing University, 
China. He is 
an Honorary Professor of Hong Kong University. He has 
established 
the Key Laboratory of the Three Gorges Reservoir 
Region’s 
Eco-Environment under Ministry of Education in China. 
He has been 
the founder Director since June 2004.  
Prof. Li was previously a Senior Analyst at Battle 
McCarthy 
Ltd. Responded for building simulations in 2002, Prior to 
that Prof. Li 
was a Postdoctoral Researcher in 1999 and then Research Associate in 2001 at Loughborough 
University, UK. He has over 25 years experience in teaching, design and consultancy in built 
environment, specialized in building energy, indoor climate, low carbon and renewable energy.  
Prof. Li holds a Master of Science degree in Building Services Engineers from Chongqing University, 
China. He obtained his Ph.D. in Construction Management and Engineering from School of 
Construction Management & Engineering in the University of Reading in UK.  
Prof. Li has authored and co-authored 6 books, over 200 technical papers and 6 Chinese National 
Standards and Design Guides. He holds 10 Chinese Patents. He received “Construction Industry 
awards” in the Achievement through Innovation category for the prototype software tool “the 
Analytical Design Planning Technique (ADePT)” in London in March 1999. He received first prize 
award for scientific progress awarded by the Ministry of Education in China in 2009.  
Prof. Li is currently a Member of National Committee on National Climate Change Challenge under 
Ministry of Science & Technology, Member of National Science Committee (Energy, Civil, 
Architecture, Transportation and Environmental Engineering) under Ministry of Education, Member 
of National Science Committee under Minister of Housing and Urban-Rural Construction and 
Member of National Consultant Committee of Sustainable Resource & Environment under Ministry 
of Construction in China.  
Prof. Li is a Fellow of Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (FRCIS), Fellow of The Chartered 
Institution of Building Services Engineers (FCIBSE), and Fellow of International Society of the Built 
Environment in UK. 
 
 
 
Selected Publications 
The appropriate airflow rate for a nozzle in commercial aircraft cabins based on thermal 
comfort experiments 
X Du, B Li, H Liu, Y Wu, T Cheng - Building and Environment, 2017 - Elsevier 
 
Thermal comfort and skin temperature responses to the supplied air from personal air 
nozzles in aircraft cabins 
Z Fang, H Liu, B Li, Y Cheng - Indoor and Built Environment, 2017 
 
A study of thermal comfort in residential buildings on the Tibetan Plateau, China 
W Yu, B Li, R Yao, D Wang, K Li - Building and Environment, 2017 - Elsevier 
 

-----
Investigations of indoor air quality of large department store buildings in China based on 
field measurements 
L Cheng, B Li, Q Cheng, AN Baldwin, Y Shang - Building and Environment, 2017 - Elsevier 
 
A simplified thermoregulation model of the human body in warm conditions 
B Li, Y Yang, R Yao, H Liu, Y Li - Applied Ergonomics, 2017 - Elsevier 
 
Seasonal variation of thermal sensations in residential buildings in the Hot Summer and 
Cold Winter zone of China 
H Liu, Y Wu, B Li, Y Cheng, R Yao - Energy and Buildings, 2017 - Elsevier 
 
Indoor Environment and Assessment 
B Li, R Yao - Sustainable High Rise Buildings in Urban Zones, 2017 – Springer 
 
A study of adaptive thermal comfort in a well-controlled climate chamber 
Y Yang, B Li, H Liu, M Tan, R Yao - Applied Thermal Engineering, 2015 – Elsevier 
 
Application of multi-objective genetic algorithm to optimize energy efficiency and thermal 
comfort in building design 
W Yu, B Li, H Jia, M Zhang, D Wang - Energy and Buildings, 2015 – Elsevier 
 
An introduction to the Chinese Evaluation Standard for the indoor thermal environment 
B Li, R Yao, Q Wang, Y Pan - Energy and Buildings, 2014 – Elsevier 
 
Occupants' adaptive responses and perception of thermal environment in naturally 
conditioned university classrooms 
R Yao, J Liu, B Li - Applied Energy, 2010 - Elsevier 
 
 

-----
