Prof. Luis Martínez-Salamero received the Ingeniero de Telecomunicación degree in 1978 and 
the Ph.D. degree in 1984, both at the Universidad Politécnica de Cataluña, Barcelona, Spain. 
From 1978 to 1992, he taught circuit theory, analog electronics and power processing at the 
Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingenieros de Telecomunicación de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. 
From 1992 to 1993, he was a visiting professor at the Center for Solid State PowerConditioning 
and Control, Department of Electrical Engineering, Duke University, Durham,NC. From 2003 
to 2004 and 2010 to 2011, he was a visiting scholar at the Division of Power Devices and Power 
Integration of the Laboratory of Architecture and Systems Analysis (LAAS), National Agency 
for Scientific Research (CNRS), Toulouse, France. Since 1995 he has been a full professor 
with the Department of Electrical Electronic and Automatic Control Engineering , School of 
Electrical and Computer Engineering, Rovira i Virgili University, Tarragona, Spain, where he 
is the director of the Research Group in Automatic Control and Industrial Electronics (GAEI). 
His research interests include structure and control of power conditioning systems, namely, 
electrical architecture of satellites and electric vehicles, as well as nonlinear control of 
converters and drives, and power conditioning for renewable energy. Prof. Martínez-Salamero 
has published a large number of papers in scientific journals and conference proceedings in the 
fields of modelling, simulation, and control of power converters, and holds a U.S. patent on 
dual voltage electrical distribution in vehicles. He was guest editor of the IEEE Transactions 
on Circuits and Systems Special Issue on Simulation, Theory and Design of Switched-Analog 
Networks (Aug. 1997). He organized in cooperation with the European Space Agency (ESA) 
the 5th European Space Power Conference (ESPC-98) in Tarragona and served during two 
terms (1996-2002) as a dean of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He was 
president of Spanish Joint Chapter of the IEEE Power Electronics and Industrial Electronics 
Societies from 2005 to 2008, and distinguished lecturer of the IEEE Circuits and Systems 
Society in the period 2001-2002. He is currently distinguished professor of Rovira i Virgili 
University. 
 
Luis Martínez-Salamero 
Department of Electrical Electronic and Automatic Control Engineering,  
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering,  
Rovira i Virgili University, Tarragona, Spain 
luis.martinez@urv.cat 
+34977559701 

-----
