Mansun CHAN (陳 文 新) 
PhD, Univ of California, Berkeley 
Fellow, IET, IEEE 
 
 
Chair Professor 
Dept of Electronic & Computer Engineering, HKUST 
 
Director of Nanoelectronics Fabrication Facility 
Adjunct Professor, Peking University Shenzhen 
Graduate School 
Research 
Areas 
Solid-State Electronics and Photonics (S2EP) 
Multi-disciplinary 
Themes 
Bio-Systems and Bio-information Technologies (BBT) 
Display and Sensors Everywhere (DSE) 
 
 
 
 
 Tel 
: +852 2358 8519 
 Email : mchan  
 Room : 2519 
 Personal Home Page 
 Google Scholar Citation 
 h-index:                        32;  
Documents by author:  606; 
Total citations:              5227 
 
 
 
Research 
Interests 
Nano device technology, 2-D electronics, CMOS image sensors, Emerging Devices, Resistive Memory, post-CMOS 
interconnect, and biosensors. 
Biography 
Professor Chan received his BS degree in Electrical Engineering (highest honors) and BS degree in 
Computer Sciences (highest honors) in 1990 and 1991 respectively, both from University of California at San 
Diego. He completed his MS degree in 1994 and PhD degree in 1995 at University of California at Berkeley. 
During his undergraduate study, he was working with Rockwell International Laboratory on HBT modeling, 
where he developed the self-heating SPICE model for HBT. His research at Berkeley covered a broad area 
in silicon devices ranging from process development to device design, characterization, and modeling. A 
major part of his work was on the development of recording breaking SOI technologies. Professor Chan has 
also maintained a strong interest in device modeling and circuit simulation. He is one of the major 
contributors to the unified BSIM3 model for SPICE, which has recently been accepted by most US 
companies and SEMATECH as an industrial standard model. In January 1996, he joined the ECE faculty at 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. In January 2002, he visited UC Berkeley as a visiting 
professor and co-director of the BSIM project. 
  
Professor Chan is a recipient of the UC Regents Fellowship, Golden Keys Scholarship for Academic 
Excellence, SRC Inventor Recognition Award, Rockwell Research Fellowship, R&D 100 award (for the 
BSIM3v3 project) and other awards. He is a distinguished lecturer and a fellow of IEEE. 
 
 
  
 
 

-----
