About Me
http://www.ece.ust.hk/~mchan/aboutme/aboutme.html[9/6/2018 10:05:08 AM]
Disclaimer: While I try to keep the information
update and accurate, there is no guarantee that
the material provided here is absolutely accurate
and error free.
About Me
Home
About me
Teaching
Research
Publications
Collections
Links
Professional Duty
Professor, Department Electronic and Computer Engineering, 
Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)
Adjunct Professor, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School
Visiting Professor, University of California at Berkeley
Board of Director, Institute of Electrical & Electronic Engineer (IEEE)
Distinguished Lecturer of EDS, Institute of Electrical & Electronic Engineer (IEEE)
Fellows of IEEE, IET and HKIE
Serving in the Board of Directors in a number of Startup Companies
Education
PhD, Electrical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley
M.Sc., Electrical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley
B.Sc., Electrical Engineering & Computer Science
University of California at San Diego
Secondary School: St. Paul's Co-educational College, Hong Kong
Religion
 A Christian since 1988, 
Currently with All Virtues Baptist Church 
But I seldom go to church these days with some good reasons
(Don't ask me why). 
What I used to do?
Fooling around with people; enjoying the fresh air in the countryside, windsurfing, painting,
photography, ballroom dancing, chess playing, bridge, video gaming ...
What I am currently doing?
My daily routine now compose of teaching classes, drafting proposals, writing reports,
talking to business people, preparing presentations, meeting with government officials in
order to get money to support my research projects and students ...
What I will be doing?
I will be stuck in the current busy schedule for a while and in the future, I hope to
contribute to the education activities for young children in the rural area, especially in
China ...
General
Technical Biography
Resume
Photos
Interests

-----
Research
http://www.ece.ust.hk/~mchan/research/research.html[9/6/2018 10:05:54 AM]
Disclaimer: While I try to keep the information
update and accurate, there is no guarantee that
the material provided here is absolutely accurate
and error free.
Projects
Home
About me
Teaching
Research
Publications
Collections
Links
Emerging Device Simulation Platform
The goal of this project is to develop an interactive Modeling and Online Simulation (i-
MOS) platform with extend functionality for model developers to release their most
updated model to the public. At the same time, users can visit i-MOS to gain access to the
most update device model and perform circuit simulation on the platform. More detail
description of the project can be found on the i-MOS website (http://i-mos.org).
Emerging Transistor Design & Fabrication
The objective is to design and fabricate transistors with emerging
technology (including carbon nanotube and organic transistors)
using top-down manufacturing approach (in contrast to the bottom-
up self-assembly approach developed by Chemist and Physicists)
to provide diversity of CMOS technology according to the ITRS
Roadmap.
 
Emerging Device Modeling and Circuit Design
With the large number of new device structures proposed in the post-Moore era, a lot of
modeling work is required to describe the operations of these devices and put them into a
circuit simulator to perform circuit simulation. In addition, new circuit techniques have to be
developed to optimize the performance of circuits designed using these device.
Carbon Based Interconnect Technology
With the technology scaling entering the sub-20nm regime, the interconnect technology
becomes the bottleneck due to the increasing resistivity with dimension scaling and
eletromigration concerns under high current density. This project to study the integration of
CNT as a via filling material into the mainstream CMOS technology. A systematic study on
methodologies to achieve high areal CNT density, small tube diameter, and low CNT-
metal contact at a temperature below the melting point of the interconnect metal is being
pursued.
Phase-Change Memory Characterization and Modeling
This project is to study and model the physical mechanism of resistive memory inclduing
the driving device. In addition, a complete simulation tool is expected to be developed for
studying the behavior of phase-change memory swithcing including a full simulation with
various driving device such as diode circuit, double gate, multiple-gate and surrounding
gate MOSFETs.
Bio-MEMS technology for DNA and Cell signal detection
This project is to develop IC based technology to interact with biological material. The
technology can be used in Lab-on-a-chip technology to extract cell contents and detect the
existance of certain DNA fragment. In addition non-invasive cell based technology to
extract cell level signa for drug profiling is also being pursued.

-----
Research
http://www.ece.ust.hk/~mchan/research/research.html[9/6/2018 10:05:54 AM]
 Projects 
 Group Members 
 Alumni 
 Research Labs 

-----
