View Olivier’s full profile. 
It's free!
Your colleagues, classmates, and 500 million other professionals are on LinkedIn.
Experience
INSA-Rennes
September 2007 – Present (9 years 10 months)
Head of FOTON-OHM lab
Thales Research and Technology France
1995 – 2007 (12 years)
Thin Solid films analyses (oxides-semiconductors-metallic multilayers)
X-ray diffraction and Atomic Force Microscopy
Institut INESC (Portugal)
1994 – 1995 (1 year)
Spintronics
Thales research and Technology France
1991 – 1994 (3 years)
Spintronics
Projects
French ANR Project OPTOSI
Starting November 2012
SIlicoN PHOtonics with diluted NItride Coherent integration. OPTOSI aims at demonstrating the 
monolithic integration of III-V optoelectronic devices on Si wafers with an emphasis toward Si 
photonics applications. The work programme is based on the investigation and evaluation of the 
direct molecular-beam epitaxy
Team members: Olivier Durand, ies-Montpellier, LPN, III-Vlab, LPCNO
Skills
Physics
Nanotechnology
Materials Science
Characterization
Silicon Photonics
Photovoltaics
Semi-conducteur
Physique
Science des matériaux
Research
People Also Viewed
Antoine Létoublon
Maître de conférence au lab. 
FOTON-OHM/INSA-Rennes 
(FOTON) co-résponsable "Cellule 
entreprises" du dépt. SGM
Laurent Pedesseau
Assistant Professor at INSA Rennes
Soline Boyer
Maître de conferences chez INSA 
Rennes
Sylvie Robinet
Maître de conférences chez INSA de 
Rennes
Hervé FOLLIOT
Dean of research, INSA Rennes 
Directeur de la recherche et de la 
valorisation, INSA de Rennes at 
INSA de Rennes
M'Hamed DRISSI
Président CDGEB : conférence des 
directeurs des grandes écoles de 
Bretagne
Charles Cornet
Ass. Prof. (Maître de conférences) 
chez FOTON Laboratory - INSA 
Rennes
jacky even
--
Maud Guezo
Maître de Conférences à l'INSA de 
Rennes
James Ledoux
Professeur des Universités à l'INSA 
Rennes, Directeur du Département 
Génie Mathématique
Public profile badge
Include this LinkedIn profile on other websites
Find a different Olivier Durand
First Name
Last Name
Example: Olivier Durand
Olivier Durand
--
Singapore
More professionals named Olivier Durand
Ads You May Be Interested In 
›
Neck Pain Relief Now! 
See a Singapore Spine Specialist 
at a Spine Center,Call 68354325 
today. 
MAPS Ipoh, Perak 
Opening On 26 June 2017. Get 
Your Tickets To Movie Animation 
Park Studios! 
Invitation from LinkedIn 
Place ads on LinkedIn. Acquire new 
customers for your business. Try it 
now. 
Olivier Durand
Professor, INSA-Rennes, Head of FOTON-OHM lab
Rennes Area, France
Think Tanks
Current
INSA-Rennes
Previous
Thales Research and Technology France, Institut INESC (Portugal), Thales 
research and Technology France
Education
Université Paris VII
499
connections
Professor
Research engineer
Post-doc position
PhD

Sign in
Join now 
Page 1 of 3
Olivier Durand | LinkedIn
23/6/2017
https://sg.linkedin.com/in/olivier-durand-82363921

-----
Caractérisation
Nanotechnologie
Optics
Science
Matlab
Couche mince
R&D
Publications
International Journal of Photoenergy, Volume 2014, Article ID 649408
June 2014
modeling of the structural and optoelectronic properties of semiconductor hybrid organic-inorganic 
perovskites and GaAs/GaP heterostructures.They show how the properties of these bulk materials, 
as well as atomistic relaxations, interfaces, and electronic band-lineups in small heterostructures, 
can be thoroughly investigated. Some limitations of available standard DFT codes are discussed. 
Recent improvements able to treat many-body effects or based on density-functional perturbation 
theory are also reviewed in the context of issues relevant to photovoltaic technologies
Authors: 
Jacky Even, Laurent Pedesseau, Eric Tea, Samy Almosni, Alain Rolland, Cédric Robert, 
Jean-Marc Jancu, Charles Cornet, Claudine Katan, Jean-François Guillemoles, Olivier Durand
Opt Quant Electron 46 (2014)
February 2014
In this paper, we present a comprehensive study of high efficiencies tandem solar
cells monolithically grown on a silicon substrate using GaAsPN absorber layer. InGaAs(N)
quantum dots and GaAsPN quantum wells have been grown recently on GaP/Si susbstrate for
applications related to light emission. For photovoltaic applications,we consider theGaAsPN
diluted nitride alloy as the top junction material due to both its perfect lattice matching with
Si and ideal bandgap energy for current generation in association with the Si bottom cell.
Numerical simulation of the top cell is performed. The effect of layer thicknesses and doping
on the cell efficiency are evidenced. In these structures a tunnel junction (TJ) is needed to
interconnect both the top and bottom sub-cells. We compare the simulated performances
of different TJ structures and show that the GaP(n+)/Si(p+) TJ is promising to improve
performances of the current–voltage characteristic
Authors: 
Alain Rolland, Laurent Pedesseau, Jacky Even, Samy Almosni, Cedric Robert, Charles Cornet, 
Jean Marc Jancu, Jamal Benhlal, Olivier Durand, Alain Le Corre, Pierre Rale
J. Appl. Phys. 115, 063502 (2014)
III-V/Si heterostructures are currently investigated for silicon photonics and solar energy
conversion. In particular, dilute nitride alloy GaAsPN grown on a GaP/Si platform exhibits lattice
match with Si and an optimal band gap configuration for tandem solar cell devices. However,
monolithic “coherent” growth of the GaP thin layer on Si suffers from the nucleation of extended
structural defects, which can hamper device operation as well as the GaP/Si interface level and
through their propagation inside the overall heterostructure. However, the effect of such structural
defects on optical and transport properties is actually not well understood in details. In this letter,
we investigate the anti phase domains defect (also called inversion domains) by means of ab initio
calculations giving insights into the alteration of optical and transport properties of GaP due to the
defective GaP/Si interface
Authors: Olivier Durand
Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 011908 (2014)
January 2014
The nature of the ground optical transition in an (In,Ga)As/GaP quantum dot is thoroughly 
investigated through a million atoms supercell tight-binding simulation. Precise quantum dot 
morphology is deduced from previously reported scanning-tunneling-microscopy images. The strain 
field is calculated with the valence force field method and has a strong influence on the confinement 
potentials, principally, for the conduction band states. Indeed, the wavefunction of the ground 
electron state is spatially confined in the GaP matrix, close to the dot apex, in a large tensile strain 
region, having mainly Xz character. Photoluminescence experiments under hydrostatic pressure 
strongly support the theoretical conclusions.
Authors: Olivier Durand
Education
Université Paris VII
DEA Physique des solides
Density Functional Theory Simulations of Semiconductors for Photovoltaic 
Applications: Hybrid Organic-Inorganic Perovskites and III/V 
Heterostructures 
Design of a lattice-matched III–V–N/Si photovoltaic tandem cell 
monolithically integrated on silicon substrate 
Theoretical study of optical properties of anti phase domains in GaP 
Strain-induced fundamental optical transition in (In,Ga)As/GaP quantum 
dots 
Sign in
Join now 
Page 2 of 3
Olivier Durand | LinkedIn
23/6/2017
https://sg.linkedin.com/in/olivier-durand-82363921

-----
1990 – 1991
Université du Maine, Le Mans
Groups
View Olivier’s full profile to...
• See who you know in common
• Get introduced
• Contact Olivier directly
Not the Olivier you’re looking for? View more
LinkedIn members in Singapore: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z more
Browse members by country
© 2017
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Community Guidelines
Cookie Policy
Copyright Policy
Unsubscribe
Institut national des Sciences appliquées de Rennes
Silicon Photonics an…
Photonics Research…
EPIC Photonics
Green Photonics
Gallium Nitride Semi…
Sign in
Join now 
Page 3 of 3
Olivier Durand | LinkedIn
23/6/2017
https://sg.linkedin.com/in/olivier-durand-82363921

-----
