Enquiry  |  Job Opportunities  |  Sitemap  |  School of Engineering  |  HKUST
Search  
Faculty
- International Recognition
- Books by ECE Faculty
Admin & Technical Staff
Faculty
Patrick YUE (俞 捷
俞 捷) 
PhD, Stanford
Fellow, IEEE
Senior Member, OSA
Professor
Dept of Electronic & Computer Engineering, HKUST
Director, HKUST-Qualcomm Lab
Associate Director, HKUST Integrated Circuits Design Center
Research Areas
Integrated Circuits and Systems (ICS)
Multi-disciplinary Themes
Big Data Systems (BDS)
Ecotronics and Green ICT (EGI)
Tel
: +852 2358 7047
Fax
: +852 2358 1485
Email : eepatrick
Room : CYT 3010
Personal Home Page
Google Scholar Citation
Research Interests
High-speed optical and millimeter-wave communication SoC design, visible light communication SoC design and application 
software, CMOS optical and mm-wave passive component modeling, wireless power transfer, and energy-efficient interface 
circuits for miniature photonic sensors.
Biography
Prof. C. Patrick Yue is a Professor in Electronic and Computer Engineering and the Director of the HKUST-Qualcomm 
Lab. His research interest include high-speed optical communication and millimeter-wave broadband integrated circuit 
design, millimeter-wave passive component modeling, visible light communication SoC design, optical camera 
communication applications, and wireless power transfer system design. 
Based on his PhD work at Stanford University, he co-founded Atheros Communications in 1998. He applied his expertise in 
CMOS RF transistor and passive component modeling to enable the deployment of the world's first 802.11a 5-GHz CMOS RF 
transceiver. After four years at Atheros, he joined anther Silicon Valley startup Aeluros to develop 10-Gbps CMOS serdes IC 
products for the optical-to-electrical modules based on the XAUI interface. During 2001-2003, Dr. Yue was a Consulting 
Assistant Professor in the EE Department at Stanford. In 2003, he joined Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA. as an 
Assistant Professor in the  Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. In 2006, Prof. Yue moved back to CA to join 
UC Santa Barbara where he taught until 2011. Prof. Yue is an active advisor to a number of startups based in the US and 
mainland China.
Prof. Yue has contributed to more than 150 peer-reviewed technical papers and two book chapters. He currently holds 15 
US patents of which most are employed in IC products. He was a co-recipient of the 2003 International Solid-State Circuits 
Conference (ISSCC) Best Student Paper Award, 2015 International IEEE Wireless Symposium and the 2017 IEEE Circuits 
and Systems Society Outstanding Young Author Award. He is the first author of a top-10 most cited paper in history of IEEE 
Journal of Solid-State Circuits (Google citation index over 1400). He has served on the organizing and technical committee 
of a number of international conferences including IEEE VLSI Circuits Symposium, IEEE European Solid-State Circuits 
Conference, IEEE International Wireless Symposium, IEEE RFIC Symposium, IEEE Asian Solid-State Circuits Conference, and 
International Symposium on VLSI Design, Automation and Test. He is an IEEE Fellow, an OSA Senior Member, an Editor for 
the Proceedings of IEEE, and the Membership Chair of the IEEE Solid-State Circuit Society.
Page 1 of 2
HKUST - Department of Electronic & Computer Engineering
2/8/2019
http://www.ece.ust.hk/ece.php/profile/facultydetail/eepatrick

-----
Page 2 of 2
HKUST - Department of Electronic & Computer Engineering
2/8/2019
http://www.ece.ust.hk/ece.php/profile/facultydetail/eepatrick

-----
