 
Prof. dr. ir. Paul Leroux                                             
 
Professor in radiation hardened micro-electronics
Campus Chair | Technology Campus Geel
KU Leuven Team Leader for the CMS Collaboration, CERN
Head of the Advanced Integrated Sensing Lab (ADVISE)
 
Faculty of Engineering Technology
Department of Electrical Engineering (ESAT) | ADVISE
 
Kleinhoefstraat 4, B-2440 GEEL, Belgium | Office E109
 
e-mail (KU Leuven): paul.leroux@kuleuven.be 
e-mail (CERN): paul.leroux@cern.ch 
☎ +32 486691911
URL: http://www.kuleuven.be/wieiswie/nl/person/00032216
PAUL LEROUX
Biography - Prof. Paul Leroux was born in Eeklo, Belgium in 1975. He received the M.Sc. degree and Ph.D. degree in
electronic engineering from the KU Leuven (University of Leuven), Belgium, in 1999 and 2004, respectively. From 1999
to 2004, he was a Teaching and Research Assistant within the MICAS research group of the KU Leuven Department of
Electrical Engineering (ESAT). In 2009 he became assistant professor at KU Leuven Dept. of Electrical Engineering
(ESAT), where he headed the Electrical Engineering (ESAT) Technology Cluster from November 2011 to July 2016. He
was promoted to associate professor in 2014. Since August 2016 he is Campus Chair of the KU Leuven Technology
Campus Geel. He is also head of the Advanced Integrated Sensing lab (ADVISE).
His current research activities within the ADVISE research group focus on radiation hardened IC design for nuclear
fusion, space and high-energy physics applications, circuits for optical communication and instrumentation and micro-
electronics for ultra-wideband and microwave sensing systems. His group is part of the CERN CMS collaboration where
Prof. Leroux is acting as KU Leuven team leader.  Paul Leroux has (co)authored over 110 papers in international
journals and conference proceedings. He is Senior Member of the IEEE. In 2010, Prof. Leroux received the SCK-CEN
Prof. Roger Van Geen Award from the FWO and FNRS for his highly innovative work on IC design for harsh radiation
environments.
Motivated students interested in pursuing a Ph.D. in above fields are highly encouraged to submit their resume.
A list of publications can be found on LIRIAS.
 ADVISE
HOME
MENU
Inloggen 
ADVISE
Our team
›
Machine learning and advanced statistics
›
Radiation tolerant integrated circuits
›
Positions
›

-----
Reacties op inhoud: Faculteit Industriële Ingenieurswetenschappen KU Leuven
Contact
›
OTHER
TWEPP 2018
›
Datasets
›
Rely Lab
›
Chip gallery
›
Spinoff
›

-----
