Research Topics
Research Topics
> Manufacturing – Subractive, 
Semi-additive, Additive
> Flexible Hybrid Electronics
> Cu-Al Wirebonding
> High Strain-Rate Data
> Light Emitting Diode (LED)
> MEMS
> Micro-CT Measurements
> PHM of Electronics
> Shock-and-Vibration
> Thermo-mechanics
Citations-Index
Harsh-Node of NextFlex
NextFlex
CAVE3
Mechanical Engineering
ME Faculty
Samuel Ginn College of 
Engineering
Auburn University
View my LinkedIn Profile
Search
Search
Archives
June 2019
November 2018
September 2018
Biography
Pradeep Lall
John and Anne MacFarlane Endowed Distinguished Professor, Department of 
Mechanical Engineering 
Courtesy Joint Appointment in Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering 
Courtesy Joint Appointment in Department of Finance
Technical Council and Governing Council of NextFlex
Director,  NSF-CAVE3 Electronics Research Center (CAVE3)
Phone: 334-844-3424
Fax:  334-844-3450
Email: lall@auburn.edu
Office: 1438 Wiggins Hall
Pradeep Lall is the MacFarlane Endowed Distinguished Professor in the 
Department of Mechanical Engineering with a Courtesy Joint Appointment in the 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a Courtesy Joint 
Appointment in the Department of Finance.  He serves on the Technical Council 
and Governing Council of NextFlex Manufacturing Institute, and is Director of 
the NSF Center for Advanced Vehicle and Extreme Environment Electronics at 
Auburn University.  He is author and co-author of 2-books, 14 book chapters, 
and over 600 journal and conference papers in the field of semiconductor 
packaging, electronics design, reliability, safety, energy efficiency, and 
survivability.  Dr. Lall is a fellow of the ASME, a fellow of the IEEE, a fellow of the 
NextFlex National Manufacturing Institute, and a fellow of the Alabama Academy 
of Science.  He is recipient of the Auburn University Research Advisory Board’s 
Advancement of Research and Scholarship Achievement Award, IEEE Sustained 
Outstanding Technical Contributions Award, NSF-IUCRC Association’s Alex 
Schwarzkopf Award, Alabama Academy of Science Wright A, Gardner Award, 
IEEE Exceptional Technical Achievement Award, ASME-EPPD Applied Mechanics 
Award, SMTA’s Member of Technical Distinction Award, Auburn University’s 
Creative Research and Scholarship Award, SEC Faculty Achievement Award, 
Samuel Ginn College of Engineering Senior Faculty Research Award, Three-
Motorola Outstanding Innovation Awards, Five-Motorola Engineering Awards, 
and over Thirty Best-Paper Awards at national and international conferences.  
Dr. Lall has served in several distinguished roles at national and international 
level including serving as member of National Academies Committee on 
Electronic Vehicle Controls, Member of the IEEE Reliability Society AdCom, IEEE 
Reliability Society Representative on the IEEE-USA Government Relations Council 
for R&D Policy, Chair of Congress Steering Committee for the ASME Congress, 
Member of the technical committee of the European Simulation Conference 
Search
Search
Recent Posts
Mechanical engineering 
professor named NextFlex Fe
June 7, 2019 
Lall receives advisory board’s
Advancement of Research an
Scholarship Achievement Aw
November 27, 2018 
Pradeep Lall wins IEEE 
Outstanding Sustained Techn
Contributions Award Septem
15, 2018 
AU Innovation in Flexible 
Electronics Featured at NextF
Innovation Day 2018 Septem
14, 2018 
Lall elected VP of publication
IEEE’s Reliability Society Marc
21, 2017 
Recent Comments
Lall elected VP of publication
IEEE’s Reliability Society – 
Pradeep Lall on Biography
Longtime SRC researcher 
Pradeep Lall wins NSF 
AwardAnchor Science LLC on
Biography
Longtime SRC researcher 
Pradeep Lall wins NSF Award
Solid State Technology on 
Biography
Categories
Activities
Flex-Hybrid
Harsh-Environments
Uncategorized
TWITTER
Pradeep Lall 
Search
Page 1 of 2
Pradeep Lall – John and Anne MacFarlane Endowed Distinguished Professor & Director
7/30/2019
http://wp.auburn.edu/lall/

-----
March 2017
July 2016
March 2016
November 2015
October 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
Videos
Harsh Environment Node of 
NextFlex
What is Flexible Electronics?
(source: 
www.manufacturing.gov/fhe-
mii.html)
Creative Research and 
Scholarship Award
Invention: Measurements using 
X-ray MicroCT
EuroSIME, Associate Editor for the IEEE Access Journal, and Associate Editor for 
the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies.  Dr. Lall is 
the founding faculty advisor for the SMTA student chapter at Auburn University 
and member of the editorial advisory board for SMTA Journal.  He received the 
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from the University of 
Maryland and the M.B.A. from the Kellogg School of Management at 
Northwestern University. 
Selected Awards and Honors
◾ Fellow of the NextFlex National Manufacturing Institute on Flexible 
Electronics (2019)
◾ Auburn University Research Advisory Board’s Advancement of Research 
and Scholarship Achievement Award (2018).
◾ IEEE Sustained Outstanding Technical Contributions Award (2018)
◾ NSF-IUCRC Alex Schwarzkopf Prize for Technology Innovation (2016)
◾ Samuel-Ginn College of Engineering Senior Faculty Research Award (2016)
◾ Wright A. Gardner Award, Alabama Academy of Sciences (2016)
◾ IEEE-CPMT Exceptional Technical Achievement Award (2014)
◾ Fellow of the Alabama Academy of Sciences (2014)
◾ ASME Applied Mechanics Award, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 
(2013)
◾ Recipient of Member of Technical Distinction Award, Surface Mount 
Technology Association, SMTA (2013).
◾ Creative Research and Scholarship Award, Auburn University (2013)
◾ SEC Faculty Achievement Award (2013)
◾ Fellow of IEEE (2012)
◾ Member, National Academies Committee, Electronic Vehicle Controls and 
Unintended Acceleration (2010)
◾ Fellow of the ASME, (2008).
3 Comments
Leave a comment 
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Embed
View on Tw
Tweets by @doclall
Nov 28, 
Lall receives advisory board's 
Advancement of Research and 
Scholarship Achievement Award  
…
wp.auburn.edu/lall/index.php
Pradeep Lall, MacFarlane Endowed 
Professor at Auburn University, left. 
receiving the Outstanding Sustained 
Contributions Award from Avram Bar-
Cohen, President of IEEE Electronic 
Packaging Society at ECTC 2018 in S
Diego; eng.auburn.edu/news/2018/06/
Pradeep Lall
@doclall
Pradeep Lall
@doclall
Powered by WordPress / Academica WordPress Theme by WPZOOM
Longtime SRC researcher Pradeep Lall wins NSF Award | Solid State Technology
August 23, 2016 at 8:01 pm 
[…] Pradeep Lall, John and Anne MacFarlane professor of mechanical engineering, has 
received a top award from the National Science Foundation’s Industry/University 
Cooperative Research Centers program. […]
Log in to Reply
Longtime SRC researcher Pradeep Lall wins NSF AwardAnchor Science LLC
August 25, 2016 at 11:07 am 
[…] Pradeep Lall, John and Anne MacFarlane professor of mechanical engineering, has 
received a top award from the National Science Foundation’s Industry/University 
Cooperative Research Centers program. […]
Log in to Reply
Lall elected VP of publications for IEEE’s Reliability Society – Pradeep Lall
March 21, 2017 at 9:52 pm 
[…] Biography […]
Log in to Reply
Page 2 of 2
Pradeep Lall – John and Anne MacFarlane Endowed Distinguished Professor & Director
7/30/2019
http://wp.auburn.edu/lall/

-----
