CV 
 
Name: Qianchuan Zhao 
Salutation: Professor, Department of Automation, Tsinghua University  
Address: Tsinghua University, Department of Automation, Beijing 100084, China 
Tel: +8610-62783612 
Email: zhaoqc@tsinghua.edu.cn 
Profile page: http://cfins.au.tsinghua.edu.cn/personalhg/zhaoqc/ 
Google Scholar: 
https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=ORRY7CgAAAAJ&view_op=list_works&sortby=pubdat
e 
Biography: 
Qianchuan Zhao (M’06–SM’08) received the B.E. degree in automatic control, the B.S. degree in applied 
mathematics, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in control theory and its applications from Tsinghua 
University, Beijing, China, in 1992 and 1996, respectively. He was a Visiting Scholar at Carnegie Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, and Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA, in 2000 and 2002, 
respectively. He was a Visiting Professor at Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA, in 2006. He is currently a 
Professor and an Associate Director of the Department of Automation, Center for Intelligent and 
Networked Systems, Tsinghua University. He has authored over 80 research papers in peer-reviewed 
journals and conferences. His research interests include control and optimization of complex networked 
systems with applications in smart buildings, smart grid, and manufacturing automation. He is an 
Associate Editor of the Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications and the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
CONTROL OF NETWORK SYSTEMS. He was an Associate Editor of the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING. He serves as the Chair of the Technical Committee on smart 
buildings of the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society. He was the recipient of the China National Nature 
Science Award for the project Optimization Theory and Optimization for Discrete Event Dynamic System 
in 2009. 
 
Education:  
Qianchuan Zhao (M’06–SM’08) received the B.E. degree in automatic control, the B.S. degree in applied 
mathematics, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in control theory and its applications from Tsinghua 
University, Beijing, China, in 1992 and 1996, respectively. 
Selected Publication: 
Wang, Fulin, et al. "Predictive Control of Indoor Environment Using Occupant Number Detected 
by Video Data and CO 2 Concentration." Energy and Buildings (2017). 
 
Zhao, Qianchuan. "Research opportunities arising from control and optimization of smart 
buildings." Control Theory and Technology 15.1 (2017): 78-80. 

-----
