Ryad BENOSMAN 
 
Full affiliation R.B. Benosman, Professor, Neuromorphic Vision and Natural 
Computation, Vision Institute, Université Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6 (UPMC), 
Sorbonne Universités, UMR S968 Inserm, UPMC, CHNO des Quinze-Vingts, 
CNRS UMRS 7210, 17 rue Moreau, 75012 PARIS – http://www.institut-
vision.org/ 
Ryad Benosman is a full Professor with University Pierre and Marie Curie, Paris, 
France, leading the Natural Computation and Neuromorphic Vision Laboratory, 
Vision Institute, Paris. 
He received the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in applied mathematics and robotics 
from University Pierre and Marie Curie in 1994 and 1999, respectively.  
His work covers neuromorphic visual computation and sensing and event based 
computation. He is currently involved in the French retina prosthetics project and 
in the development of retina implants and cofounder of Pixium Vision a french 
prosthetics company.  
He also actively works on retina stimulation using optogenetics with Gensight 
Biologics.  
He is an expert in complex perception systems, which embraces the conception, 
design, and use of different vision sensors covering omnidirectional 360 degree 
wide-field of view cameras, variant scale sensors, and non-central sensors.  
He is among the pioneers of the domain of omni-directional vision and unusual 
cameras and still active in this domain.  
He has been involved in several national and European robotics projects, mainly in 
the design of artifcial visual loops and sensors. His current research interests 
include the understanding of the computation operated along the visual systems 
areas and establishing a link between computational and biological vision.  
Ryad Benosman has authored more than 100 scientific publications and holds 
several patents in the area of vision, robotics, event-based sensing and prosthetics.  
In 2013 he was awarded with the national best French scientific paper by the 
Journal La Recherche for his work on neuromorphic retinas and their applications 
to retina stimulation and prosthetics.  

-----
