Raafat Mansour
Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering; Canada Research Chair in Micro 
and Nano Integrated RF Systems
Research interests: RF MEMS/NEMS; atomically precise manufacturing; scanning probe microscopy; 
RF-CMOS technology; multiplexers; superconductive microwave devices
Biography
Professor Raafat Mansour is a Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering at the University of Wa-
terloo and holds an Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) Industrial 
Research Chair on Radio Frequencies (RF) Engineering. In 2010, Mansour was appointed a Tier I Can-
ada Research Chair Holder. He is the founding Director of the Center for Integrated RF Engineering 
(CIRFE) at the University of Waterloo. Mansour currently leads a research group consisting of 25 PhD, 
MSc graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. Prior to joining the University of Waterloo in 1999. 
Mansour was with COM DEV Cambridge, Ontario, over the period 1986-1999, where he progressed 
through various technical and management positions in COM DEV’s Corporate R&D Department. He 
has been a pioneer in employing emerging materials and technologies such as high temperature super-
conductor and Micro-Electro-Mechanical System (MEMS) to build novel devices with unprecedented 
performance.
Mansour holds 29 U.S. and Canadian patents to his credit (25 awarded and 4 pending) and has pub-
lished has more than 200 papers. He is a co-author of a 20-chapter Wiley book published in July 2007, 
and has contributed 4 chapters to other two books. He has received several Best Paper Awards and out-
standing research performance awards from both COM DEV and the University of Waterloo. 
Mansour’s excellence in research has been recognized internationally through Fellowship in the Insti-
tute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He is a registered Professional Engineer in Ontario 
and is a Fellow of the Engineering Institute of Canada (EIC).
Mansour established a MEMS infrastructure facility funded by Canada Foundation for Innovation 
(CFI) and Ontario Innovation Trust (OIT) at the University of Waterloo. The facility houses a dedicated 
clean room for MEMS fabrication and a characterization laboratory having state-of-the-art RF and 
MEMS test equipment. 
Education
• PhD, Electrical Engineering, University of Waterloo, 1986
• MSc, Electrical Engineering, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt, 1981
• BSc, Electrical Engineering, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt, 1977
WATERLOO INSTITUTE FOR NANOTECHNOLOGY 
Page 1 of 3
Raafat Mansour | Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology | University of Waterloo
9/24/2018
https://uwaterloo.ca/institute-nanotechnology/people-profiles/raafat-mansour

-----
EXPAND ALL
COLLAPSE ALL
Successful exploitation of nanotechnology-enabled products requires new advances in instrumen-
tation for measurement, characterization, and fabrication of nano-scale structures.
Scanning Probe Microscopy is the most widely used technique for imaging surfaces and studying 
their atomic structure. More recently, SPM’s have emerged as tools that enable the fabrication of 
nanostructures. These tip-based SPM instruments are the most promising candidates for attaining 
atomically precise manufacturing (APM) and are the keys to unlocking the full potential of nano-
technology. Part of Dr. Mansour’s research is to investigate “bottom-up” manufacturing techniques 
that rely heavily on chip-scale Scanning Probe Microscopes (SPMs).
Professor Mansour leads a large group in emerging RF technologies including RF Micro-Electro-
Mechanical Systems (MEMS), miniature RFID, wireless intelligent systems, filters & multiplexers, 
superconductivity, novel materials, computer-aided circuit diagnosis, simulation and modeling.
Research interests
RESEARCH
Page 2 of 3
Raafat Mansour | Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology | University of Waterloo
9/24/2018
https://uwaterloo.ca/institute-nanotechnology/people-profiles/raafat-mansour

-----
• MEMS technology
• RF devices and intelligent adaptive RF integrated systems
• Integrated MEMS/CMOS circuits
• Wireless sensors for industrial and biomedical applications
• Microelectrodes for Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Systems
• Superconductive devices
• RF-CMOS components
• Electromagnetic band gap structures
• Analysis of integrated RF systems (components, packaging and interconnect)
PUBLICATIONS
CONTACT
Page 3 of 3
Raafat Mansour | Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology | University of Waterloo
9/24/2018
https://uwaterloo.ca/institute-nanotechnology/people-profiles/raafat-mansour

-----
