Curriculum vitae
CARMINATI R´
emi
Born on February 17, 1971 in Thonon (France)
Nationality : French.
Married, two children.
Personal address :
Professional address :
65, Voie de la Vall´
ee aux Loups
Laboratoire Photons Et Mati`
ere, CNRS
92290 Chˆ
atenay-Malabry, France
Laboratoire d’Optique Physique, ESPCI
Phone : 01 40 94 19 57
75231 Paris Cedex 05, France
Phone : 01 40 79 51 58
E-mail : remi.carminati@espci.fr
Current position : Professor at ESPCI (School of Physics and Chemistry of the City of Paris),
since Dec. 1, 2007.
Area of expertise : Waves in Complex Media
Academic grades and titles
• Engineer Degree from Ecole Centrale Paris, 1993.
• Master Degree in Transport Phenomena and Combustion, Ecole Centrale Paris, 1993.
• PhD in Optical Physics, Ecole Centrale Paris, defended on Sept. 9, 1996, with honors.
Subject : “Analysis of the image formation in near-field optics”.
Members of Committee : Profs. Boccara, Chavel (President), Girard, Greffet (Advisor),
Nieto-Vesperinas (Referee), Pohl et Van Labeke (Referee).
• Post-doctoral fellowship in the Department of Theoretical Condensed Matter Physics
(Prof. M. Nieto-Vesperinas) of the Institute of Material Science of Madrid (Spain), Oct.
1996 - Sept. 1997.
• “Habilitation `
a Diriger des Recherches” from the University of Paris-Sud, Orsay, defended
on Nov. 20, 2002
Subject: “Propagation, scattering and thermal emission of electromagnetic radiation at
small scales”.
Members of Committee : Profs. Aspect (President), Boccara (Referee), Greffet, Sandogh-
dar (Referee), Van Labeke (Referee), S´
aenz.
Distinctions
Laureate of the Fabry-De Gramont Prize of the French Optical Society in 2006.
1

-----
Languages
English (fluent), Spanish (read and spoken), German (read).
Expertise and scientific coordination and networking
Referee of international journals in physics (Physical Review, Physical Review Letters, Journal
of Applied Physics, Applied Physics Letters, European Physical Journal) and optics (Journal of
the Optical Society of America, Optics Letters, Optics Communications, Journal of Optics A).
Member of the International Scientific Committee of the conference Trends in Nanotechnology.
Referee for French National Agency for Research (ANR) programs.
Coordinator of the “Nanophotonics, Complex Media and Biophotonics” activity of the French
Research Group of the CNRS on “Waves” (with C. Seassal and A. de Lustrac).
Publications
70 publications in international journals.
20 invited talks in conferences and summer schools.
More than 100 oral or poster presentations in conferences.
2

-----
