ME
NRE/MP
College of Engineering
Campus Virtual Tour
GT Campus Map
GT Directories
Home
Faculty & Staff
Kumar, Satish
Search...
The School
Education
Ph.D., ME, Purdue University, 2007
M.S., ECE, Purdue University, 2007
M.S., ME, Louisiana State University, 2003
B.Tech., ME, Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, 2001
Research Areas and Descriptors
Heat Transfer and Fluid Mechanics: micro-nano heat transfer, electro-
thermal transport, nanoscale materials and devices, computational
fluid dynamics, bio-fluids, and electronics cooling.
Background
Dr. Kumar joined Georgia Tech in spring 2009 as an Assistant Professor.
Prior, he worked at the Systems and Technology Group at IBM in Austin,
Texas on thermal modeling and design of high-performance computing
systems.
Research
Dr. Kumar research interests are in the development and validation of the
first principles models for micro/nano scale electro-thermal transport and
their applications in emerging devices, such as nanotube/ nanowire
based devices, thermal management of electronic systems and
heat/mass transfer analysis in bio-fluidic systems. His research efforts are
focused on investigating transport induced by different carriers (electron,
phonon, etc.) in emerging devices and different nanostructured materials
using multiscale computational solvers. The research activities include
the development of models to analyze and design nano-materials based
architectures for efficient energy conversion and efficient micro-
electronics cooling.
Profile
Satish Kumar
Associate Professor
Heat Transfer, Combustion and Energy Systems
Love, Room 123
satish.kumar@me.gatech.edu
T: 404-385-6640
F: 404-894-7790
http://minds.gatech.edu/
Back to listing
Overview
Distinctions & Awards
Publications & Patents
ABOUT
ACADEMICS
RESEARCH
FACULTY & STAFF
ALUMNI
LIFE@ME
GIVING
EVENTS
AMORPHOUS
MATERIAL'S
UNUSUAL
VIBRATION MODES
CAPSTONE DESIGN
EXPO
CHEN
GEORGIA TECH
INVENTION STUDIO
GEORGIA TECH
MECHANICAL
ENGINEERS MAKE
THIS AIN'T YOUR
GRANDFATHER'S ME
DEGREE
WHAT IS THE UNIT
OF YOUR FUTURE?
IT'S ME!
WRECK RACING
YAVARI
RINEHART

-----
Copyright 2012 by The George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering. Disclaimer | Site by Piszko
Temperature distribution in a 3-D nanotube network.
We have been developing an analytical and numerical framework which
helps in understanding, controlling and designing nanowire and nanotube
composites suitable for thin film transistors for various macro-electronic
applications. This work is based on the physics of electron transport,
thermal transport and heterogeneous percolation theory. The developed
models are used to analyze the conductive properties of nanotube
network and its composites and also for the analysis of coupled electrical
and thermal performance of nanotube-network transistors. The nano-
scale contact physics between nanotubes is explored using sub-
continuum simulations. The contact thermal resistance and the energy
transfer mechanisms at tube-tube interface are studied using molecular
dynamics and wavelet theory. This work will benefit diverse applications
such as flexible displays, transparent electrodes, energy storage devices,
bio-chemical sensors or solar cells.
In the area of thermal management of electronic devices, we have been
developing modeling techniques for analyzing novel thermal management
devices such as ultrathin thermoelectric coolers integrated inside an
electronic package. We have been studying on-chip power migration
techniques and thermal interactions of multi-scale 3D interconnect
structures with electronic packages. These studies are crucial not only for
enhancing the efficiency, reliability and performance of advanced
computing systems, but also for novel materials (CNT, graphene) based
technologies where high power dissipation and heat removal can pose
severe challenges.
The nature of our research is both applied and fundamental which involve
various disciplines including thermal sciences, fluids sciences and
semiconductor device physics. Students involved in this research work
will also take courses in electrical engineering and physics department
and perform computational/ experimental work, which will prepare them
for a successful career in both academia and industry.
STUDENT RESOURCES
Undergraduate Handbook
Undergraduate Curriculum
Undergraduate Registration
Undergraduate FAQs
Graduate Handbook
Graduate FAQs
Student Groups
FACULTY & STAFF RESOURCES
Support Services
Phone Directory
Support Assignments - Under
Construction
Forms
TechWorks
Facilities
CoE Dean's Office Statement on Ethics
& Integrity
QUICK LINKS
Accreditation
College of Engineering
Georgia Tech Visitor Information
Privacy & Legal Information
CONTACT US
George W. Woodruff School
of Mechanical Engineering
801 Ferst Drive
Georgia Institute of Technology
Atlanta, GA 30332-0405
Phone: 404-894-3200
Fax: 404-894-1658
info@me.gatech.edu
Employment Opportunities
THE GEORGE W. WOODRUFF SCHOOL OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
BACK TO TOP

-----
