CV - Sebastian Lourdudoss 
Page 1 of 2 
1 
CURRICULUM VITAE 
 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
Sebastian LOURDUDOSS 
 
Address: 
 
 
  
 
 
 
School of Engineering Sciences 
KTH-Royal Institute of Technology 
Electrum 229 
Isafjordsgatan 22-24 
16440 Kista 
Sweden 
Tel: + 46 8 7904349; +46 707104349 (mob) 
e-mail: slo@kth.se 
 
 
Date of birth: 
 
 
June 11, 1953 
 
Nationality: 
 
 
Swedish 
 
Education: 
 
1976-79 
Ph.D. at Faculté Libre des Sciences de Lille, Lille, France. Specialisation: 
Electrochemistry. Title: “Études électrochimiques du cuivre(I) et de l’argent(I) en vue 
de l’électroraffinage du cuivre.”  
Career: 
1980-85 
Guest Researcher and Research Associate, Department of Physical Chemistry, Royal 
Institute of Technology, Stockholm. 
1985-93 
Scientist, principal scientist, Institute of Microwave Technology, Stockholm and  
Swedish Institute of Microelectronics (IM), Kista 
1993-94 
After the integration of IM with Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm in July 
1993, joined the Laboratory of Photonics and Microwave Engineering, Department of 
Electronics. 
1994 
Promoted as Docent (associate professor) in process technology for photonics by 
School of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, Royal Institute of 
Technology, Stockholm . 
1994-98 
Associate professor, Laboratory of Artificial Semiconductor Materials, Department of 
Electronics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm. 
1998- 
“Universitetslektor” (Reader or Associate professor), Department of Electronics, Royal 
Institute of Technology, Stockholm.  
1997-1999 
Managed the EU financed Long Term Research Esprit project, NANOLASE: 
Nanofabrication of strongly gain coupled lasers for high speed communication and 
sensor applications. Also actively involved in two other EU-projects namely 
VERTICAL (fabrication of vertical cavity surface emitting lasers) 
 
Present position: 
 
•  Professor, School of Engineering Sciences 
 
• Project leader for the SSF (Foundation for Strategic Research) financed research on 
selective epitaxy of semi-insulating and conducting materials pertinent to device 
fabrication. This also comprises project on heteroepitaxy. 
• Managing NUTEK financed KOFUMA project for developing high performance 
short wavelength lasers.  Also actively involved in two other EU-projects namely GIFT 
(GaAs based emitters for fibre optical data and telecommunication) and Q-Switch 
(Heterostructure-defined electron waveguides for quantum-based switching 
applications) 

-----
CV - Sebastian Lourdudoss 
Page 2 of 2 
2 
• Teaching subjects related to optoelectronic materials and processing 
• Supervising doctoral and final year students 
 
Research experience: 
 
• Physico-chemical aspects of electro-refining of copper (doctoral thesis), thermal 
energy storage and absorption heat pumps.  
• Thermodynamic modelling of certain chemical absorption systems  
• Vapour Phase Epitaxial growth of III-V compounds and their characterisation. Good 
knowledge on characterisation techniques such as X-ray, photluminescence, Hall 
measurements, C-V profiling, SIMS, I-V measurements, SEM etc.  
• Thermodynamic analysis of the vapour growth of III-V compounds. 
• Epitaxy including selective epitaxy and characterisation of semi-insulating III-V 
compounds on planar and non-planar substrates for optoelectronic device applications. 
Electrical measurements on semi-insulating materials. 
• Design of transversal structure and characterisation of buried heterostructure lasers  
• Developed an attractive technology for fabricating lasers that could be modulated 
up to 30 GHz. This technology has also been demonstrated useful for integrating 
heterojunction bipolar transistor and laser, improved electrical and optical performance 
of quantum wires and long and short wavelength VCSELs. 
Teaching experience: 
1977-79 
Taught chemistry to the chemical and agricultural engineering students in French at 
Hautes Etudes Industrielles and Institut Supérieur d'Agriculture, Lille, France. 
1984-85 
Lab course in Physical Chemistry to the second year students, KTH, Stockholm. 
1991 
Taught an advanced tutorial course on “Growth of semi-insulating III-V compounds on 
planar and non-planar substrates,” to scientists, teachers and doctoral students during 
International Workshop on Crystal Growth of Technologically Important Materials for 
Device Applications, Anna University, Madras, India, November 1991. 
1993 
Taught an introductory course on “GaInAsP/InP based advanced semi-conductor lasers 
- from materials to devices,” to scientists and doctoral students of Crystal Growth 
Centre, Anna University, Madras, India, December, 1993. 
1991- 
Engaged in teaching doctoral and final year students. Subjects related to optoelectronic 
mateials and processing technology. 
 
Project Evaluation: 
 
Evaluation expert for EU’s ESPRIT and BRITE-EURam programmes 
 
Ph.D. thesis evaluation: 
Opponent to one Swedish Ph.D. thesis, Feb. 2000. 
Member of the jury for the defence of a French Ph.D. thesis, 2000. 
Evaluation committee member for two Swedish Ph.D. theses, 1995 and 1997. 
External evaluation committee member for four Indian Ph.D. theses, 1998-2000. 
Publications: 
 
Author and co-author of over 100 reviewed papers in international journals and 
conference proceedings. 
Membership: 
 
Member of Electrochemical Society and TMS and Senior Member of IEEE. 
Award: 
 
Laureate of Fondation de France for the year 1978 
 
Member of the group that received the “guldfot” (gold foot) from Nyteknik magazine 
for the breakthrough within Information Technology in the year 1999. 
 
IPRM (Indium Phosphide and Related Materials) AWARD WINNER 2017 
 
 

-----
