Sheng Tong, Ph.D. | Bioengineering | Rice University
https://bioengineering.rice.edu/sheng-tong[2/11/2019 8:59:27 AM]
 

Rice / Bioengineering / Sheng Tong, Ph.D.
Department of Bioengineering

   

Sheng Tong, Ph.D.
Associate Research Professor
Laboratory of Biomolecular Engineering and
Nanomedicine
 
Bio Sketch
Sheng Tong develops nanotechnologies for the early detection
and treatment of atherosclerosis, cancer and many other human
diseases. Currently, his research in Professor Bao's Laboratory of
Biomolecular Engineering and Nanomedicine focuses on the
development of functional iron oxide nanoparticles, a versatile
nanomaterial that can be used for in vitro diagnostics, magnetic
resonance imaging, drug delivery and remote control of biological
processes.
Iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) are composed of wüstite,

-----
Sheng Tong, Ph.D. | Bioengineering | Rice University
https://bioengineering.rice.edu/sheng-tong[2/11/2019 8:59:27 AM]
maghemite or magnetite crystals only a few nanometers in
diameter. In particular, magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (MNPs)
of maghemite or magnetite can produce strong T2 signals in
magnetic resonance imaging, holding great promises for molecular
imaging of various disease processes. MNPs can be heated with
alternating magnetic field (AMF). This feature has been extensively
explored for cancer hyperthermia and controlled drug release. In
addition, as with bulk magnets, MNPs experience a force in
external magnetic field. These nano-sized magnets thus provide a
means for magnetic targeting of therapeutic agents to desired
organs or tissues in the body.
Working in the Bao lab, Tong’s research
covers chemical synthesis, fundamental
biophysics and biomedical applications of
MNPs. Tong has developed novel methods for
coating MNPs with lipids and lipid-PEG
copolymers. The packaged MNPs were used
as model systems for elucidating the
mechanisms of MRI T2 relaxivity, AMF heating
and magnetic mobility. Combining these
nanotechnologies, Tong is working toward
using MNPs to improve intratumoral delivery of
therapeutic agents. Examples include loading
MNPs with doxorubicin for combined
hyperthermia and chemotherapy, or
indocyanine green for image-guided
photothermal therapy. Tong also works with
biologists and medical doctors to engineer
MNPs for monitoring and controlling cell fate in
cell therapies.
Prior to his research at Rice University, Tong
was a research engineer in the Wallace H.
Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering
at Georgia Institute of Technology. His
Postdoctoral
Fellow,
Biomedical
Engineering,
University of
California at
San Diego
(2003-2006)
Ph.D.,
Biomedical
Engineering,
Duke
University
(2003)
M.S.,

-----
Sheng Tong, Ph.D. | Bioengineering | Rice University
https://bioengineering.rice.edu/sheng-tong[2/11/2019 8:59:27 AM]
investigations in the NIH/NHLBI Program of
Excellence in Nanotechnology served the
Center for Translational Cardiovascular
Nanomedicine.
Tong has a doctorate degree from Duke
University where he worked in Professor Fan
Yuan's research group. The research
investigated mechanisms of molecular
transport in tissues, and the transport barriers
of drug delivery to solid tumors.
Mechanical
Engineering,
Peking
University
(1998)
B.S.,
Mechanical
Engineering,
University of
Science and
Technology of
China (1995)

-----
