Dr Siew-Chong TAN is an Associate Professor at the University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 
SAR. He received his B.Eng. (Honors) and M.Eng. degree in Electrical Engineering from the 
National University of Singapore, Singapore, and Ph.D. in Electronic and Information 
Engineering, specializing in power electronics,  from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong SAR. He is Director of Emerging Power Electronics Laboratory and Director of 
100 kVA Smart Grid Research Facility at the University of Hong Kong. 
 
TAN specializes in power electronics and control. He has published works in nonlinear and 
sliding mode control applications, LED lighting control, electric springs, and switched-
capacitor converters. His research outputs, to date, include 2 research monographs, 2 book 
chapters, 93 journal papers, and 77 conference papers. He has also obtained 15 patents for his 
work, with 3 pending patent applications. His recent awards include (1) Best Paper Award at 
IEEE ECCE 2016, (2) Outstanding Presentation Award at IEEE APEC 2016, (3) Best Student 
Poster Presentation Award at IEEE ECCE 2015, and (4) Second Prize Paper Award at IEEE 
PEDG 2014. His published works are listed in Google Scholar. 
 
TAN is an active member of IEEE, serving as Associate Editor of IEEE TPEL and reviewer of 
many IEEE transactions and journals. He served as Organizing Committee Co-Chair for IEEE 
Workshop on Emerging Technologies: Wireless Power, Canada, 2018 and Technical Program 
Committee Co-Chair for IEEE International Conference on Smart Grid Communications, 
U.S.A., 2015. He had also served as technical committee member and review committee 
member in several international conferences. He is currently Member, Appeal Board Panel 
under Electricity Ordinance (Chapter 406), The Government of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region. He is a practicing consultant and has worked on projects involving 
power outages and lithium battery testing. 
 
Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
The University of Hong Kong 
Room 719, Chow Yei Ching Building 
Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong 
Email: sctan@eee.hku.hk 
+85228592707 
 

-----
