UC Davis
College of Engineering
Maps and Directions
Biography

Srabanti received her B. Tech in Radiophysics and Electronics from Institute of 
Radiophysics and Electronics, India and her M.S and PhD in Electrical Engineering 
from University of California, Santa Barbara.
After finishing her undergraduate studies in India, Srabanti briefly spent a year and 
a half, exploring the corporate world working in Bangalore, after which she 
decided to pursue doctoral studies in Electrical engineering.  She joined Prof. 
Umesh Mishra’s group at UC Santa Barbara where she completed her MS (Jun’08) 
and PhD (Dec’10) in Electrical and Computer Engineering. In her PhD. work, she 
developed GaN-based vertical devices for power conversion and demonstrated the 
first vertical GaN power device (CAVET) on single crystalline Gallium Nitride 
material with then-record (highest) breakdown electric field. After her PhD she 
joined Transphorm, a California-based company to develop and commercialize 
GaN based devices for power electronics application. After a couple 
of fruitful years at Transphorm, she decided to go “back to school’ , this time as a 
faculty member. She joined the school of Electrical Computer and Energy 
Engineering at Arizona State University in March’13. She picked up the momentum 
and continued her work developing solutions for next generation electronics. Her 
group consists of 8 graduate students and 3 post doctoral researcher. With a 
dozen of bright minds exploring wide bandgap device technologies, Srabanti 
continues to build build solutions in her Wide badgap Lab.  Besides Gallium 
Nitride, her research group also focuses on Diamond and Gallium Oxide materials 
for power and other emerging electronics. In addition to the DARPA Young Faculty 
Award, she has received the NSF CAREER and AFOSR Young Investigator Program 
(YIP) in 2015 to continue her research. She has authored and coauthored over 15 
journal publications and presented in over 20 conferences. She has over 14 
patents (combining issued and filed) on Gallium Nitride and diamond based 
devices and technologies.
Page 1 of 2
Biography - Chowdhury, Srabanti
10/26/2017
https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/chowdhury/biography/

-----
Electrical and Computer Engineering
2064 Kemper Hall
University of California, Davis
Davis, CA 95616
Office: Kemper Hall, Rm 3133
Tel: 530 752 7347
Fax: 530-752-8428
chowdhury at ucdavis.edu
Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All Rights Reserved. 
Page 2 of 2
Biography - Chowdhury, Srabanti
10/26/2017
https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/chowdhury/biography/

-----
