CNL People
Terry Sejnowski: Principal Investigator
 Email Terry Sejnowski
Website
http://www.salk.edu/faculty/faculty_details.php?id=48
Curriculum Vitae
http://cnl.salk.edu/~terry/TJS.shortCV.11.pdf
Biography
Terrence Sejnowski is a pioneer in computational neuroscience and his goal is to understand the principles that link brain to behavior. His 
laboratory uses both experimental and modeling techniques to study the biophysical properties of synapses and neurons and the population 
dynamics of large networks of neurons. New computational models and new analytical tools have been developed to understand how the 
brain represents the world and how new representations are formed through learning algorithms for changing the synaptic strengths of 
connections between neurons. He has published over 300 scientific papers and 12 books, including The Computational Brain, with Patricia 
Churchland.
He received his PhD in physics from Princeton University and was a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard Medical School. He was on the faculty at 
the Johns Hopkins University and he now holds the Francis Crick Chair at The Salk Institute for Biological Studies and is also a Professor of 
Biology at the University of California, San Diego, where he is co-director of the Institute for Neural Computation and co-director of the NSF 
Temporal Dynamics of Learning Center. He is the President of the Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) Foundation, which 
organizes an annual conference attended by over 1000 researchers in machine learning and neural computation and is the founding editor-
in-chief of Neural Computation published by the MIT Press.
An investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, he is also a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science 
and a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He has received many honors, including the NSF Young Investigators 
Award, the Wright Prize for interdisciplinary research from the Harvey Mudd College, the Neural Network Pioneer Award from the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the Hebb Prize from the International Neural Network Society. He was elected to the Institute of 
Medicine in 2008, to the National Academy of Sciences in 2010, and to the National Academy of Engineering in 2011. He is one of only 10 
living persons to be a member of all 3 national academies.
Latest Publications
Veit, J. Hakim, R. Jadi, M. P. Sejnowski, T. J. Adesnik, H. Cortical gamma band synchronization through somatostatin interneurons, 
Nature Neuroscience, 20(7): 951-959, 2017
Lainscsek, C. Muller , L. E. Sampson, A. L. Sejnowski, T. J. Analytical Derivation of Nonlinear Spectral Effects and 1/f Scaling Artifact in 
Signal Processing of Real-World Data., Neural Computation, 29(7), 2004-2020, 2017
Lin, T. W. Das, A. Krishnan, G. P. Bazhenov, M. Sejnowski, T. J. Differential Covariance: A New Class of Methods to Estimate Sparse 
Connectivity from Neural Recordings, Neural Computation, in press
Peterson, D. A. Sejnowski, T. J. A Dynamic Circuit Hypothesis for the Pathogenesis of Blepharospasm, Frontiers in Computational 
Neuroscience, 11, 11 /doi.org/10.3389/fncom.2017.00011, 2017 PMCID:PMC5340098 (PDF)
Das, A. Sejnowski, T. J. Narrowband and Wideband Off-Grid Direction-of-Arrival (DOA) Estimation via Sparse Bayesian Learning, IEEE 
Journal of Oceanic Engineering, in press
View More
Page 1 of 1
CNL : CNL People
22/8/2017
http://cnl.salk.edu/People/Person/?Person=1800

-----
