HOME 
CONFERENCES + EXHIBITIONS 
PUBLICATIONS 
EDUCATION 
MEMBERSHIP 
INDUSTRY RESOURCES 
CAREER CENTER 
NEWS + VIDEOS 
CREATE AN ACCOUNT | 
SIGN IN 
ABOUT SPIE | 
CONTACT US | 
HELP | 
VIEW CART (0 ITEMS)
Individual Members
Early Career Members
Student Members
Corporate Members
SPIE Professional Magazine
Visiting Lecturers
Lecturer Directory
Travel Policies
Reimbursement
Women In Optics
BACUS Technical Group
C. Vijayan
Prof. C.  Vijayan
Professor
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras
Department of Physics
Chennai  600036
India
tel: 91-44-22574877
fax: 505 272 7801
E-mail: cvijayan@iitm.ac.in
Web: http://www.physics.iitm.ac.in/~cvijayan
Area of Expertise
Nonlinear Optics and Nanophotonics; Novel optical materials and processes, 
Photonic Crystals, Optical properties of nanomaterials
Biography
Prof. C. Vijayan obtained his M. Sc. and Ph. D degrees from Indian Institute 
of Technology, Madras, Chennai, INDIA. He served as a senior project officer 
in the laser laboratory of IIT Madras during 1986-87 and joined the central 
University as a lecturer in 1988. Later he joined the faculty of the Department 
of Physics, IIT Madras in 1993 and is a senior professor there presently.
He has guided nine research students so far for their Ph. D degree and is 
presently guiding three more in the areas of nanomaterials, nonlinear optics 
and nanophotonics. He has coauthored over 70 research papers in 
prestigious international journals such as Physical Review, Applied Physics 
Letters, Journal of Applied Physics, Langmuir, JOSA and Nanotechnology 
and contributed chapters to three books so far. He has also been as a 
reviewer for many of these and several other leading journals. He has been 
involved in several national and international research projects and interacts 
with research groups in USA, UK, Germany, Australia and Singapore.
Prof. Vijayan has given several invited talks in seminars and conferences in 
India and abroad. He has served as thesis examiner, resource person for 
refresher courses and as member in various academic committees of other 
IITs, National Institutions, National laboratories and Universities. He has also 
been invited to deliver lectures in Physics to UG and PG students of several 
colleges and universities.
Lecture Title(s)
Foundations of Nanophotonics: 
This talk introduces the basic concepts of Nanophotonics, an emerging 
frontier of intense research activity. This field of research has evolved from 
the realization that a wide variety of novel phenomena that occur when light 
interacts with new kinds of specially designed nanostructures. These new 
modes of interaction are of fundamental interest in view of the fascinating 
physical processes involved. They also hold excellent promise for the next 
generation device applications in photonics.
The advent of lasers and the ensuing progress in understanding nonlinear 
optical response of matter were perhaps the very first milestones of the long 
journey from optics to nanophotonics. The next was the realization that the 
interaction of light with metamaterials based on periodic structures with 
submicron features ushers in involves a rich variety of new and interesting 
Physics.
One topic of intense activity has been the search for techniques to obtain 
efficient low threshold laser action and a seemingly unrelated topic of interest 
has been effects of Anderson-like localization of light within extremely small 
volumes. It appears that the most efficient approach so far for the realization 
of both these dreams is the design media made up of specially designed 
nanostructures where periodic variations of refractive index can be obtained.
The physics of the problem is very similar to that of interaction of electrons 
with a periodic potential as in the case of crystalline media. It is well known 
that this leads to the concept of the band gap in semiconductors and 
insulators. In a similar manner, the interaction of light with dielectric media 
with a periodic variation of high and low values of refractive indices leads to 
the idea of stop bands where light of certain frequency range is not allowed to 
propagate within the structure.
Light-matter interaction in such periodic media can lead to a host of 
interesting possibilities, which are being realized. Under suitable conditions of 
design, these media can exhibit negative refraction, slow down the speed of 
light considerably, localize intense optical fields and lead to extremely low 
threshold laser action
The Fascinating Frontier of Slow Light
Recent research has established the possibility of bringing down the speed of 
light to a considerably low value in specially designed materials/structures. 
Specific techniques to slow down and even store light in appropriate media at 
Ready for the benefits of individual 
SPIE membership?
Already a member? Get access to 
member-only content.
Member-only Content: 
These articles are available only 
to SPIE Members as a valuable 
resource. 
Icon denotes member-only 
content. 
Download Photonics: Technical 
applications of light - infographics 
The English version of the 
infographic book, created by 
SPECTARIS and other industry 
sponsors in Germany, covering 
basic photonics concepts. 
SPIE Online Courses
At Your Pace - On Your Schedule
SEARCH
Page 1 of 3
C. Vijayan | SPIE Homepage: SPIE
18/7/2017
https://spie.org/membership/visiting-lecturers/lecturer-directory/vijayan-c

-----
Copyright © 2017 SPIE 
About SPIE  |  Jobs at SPIE  |  Author Information  |  Privacy Policy  |  Sitemap  |  SPIEDigitalLibrary.org
room temperature have been developed and its effective utilization in device 
applications is being investigated actively. This talk introduces the basic 
physical concept of light propagation at values of group velocities much lower 
than that of the speed of light in vacuum, outlines different approaches to 
achieving slow light and discusses the scope for practical applications.
The speed of light in any material medium is lower than that in vacuum and 
the extent of this reduction is characterized by the value of the refractive 
index of the medium. However, slow light refers to groups of light waves 
traveling at group velocities which are lower than the speed in vacuum by 
several orders of magnitude. Several experimental techniques have been 
used for the practical and convenient realization of slow light. One of these is 
using the phenomenon of electromagnetically induced transparency which 
arises due to certain subtle quantum effects in specific energy level systems. 
This leads to interesting spectral profiles of optical absorption which in turn 
manifests as the kind of dispersion of the group refractive index required for 
slowing of light.
Another way of obtaining slowlight is by utilizing certain specific features of 
the photonic band gap of suitably designed metamaterials. Photonic crystals 
can permit extremely low values of group velocity under certain conditions as 
a result of the propagation of light in a periodic arrangement of two different 
materials with alternating high and low values of refractive index.
Slow light can induce remarkable modifications in the manner in which matter 
interacts with light, paving way for novel forms of physical processes that can 
revolutionize the design of optoelectronic and photonic devices. Nonlinear 
optical response with extremely large efficiency is expected when intense 
slow light interacts with material media. This, along with a possible reduction 
in size of devices, can revolutionize the present design of optical switches, 
diodes and modulators, paving the way for the realization of the long 
cherished dreams of all optical computing technologies of communication and 
control. While the basic physics of slow light and its interaction with matter is 
quite intriguing at a fundamental level, recent results on the experimental front 
highlight the scope of photonic-crystal-based slow-light-structures in shaping 
up new, efficient and economic avenues of this emerging technology.
Design of Stable Nanocomposites for Applications in Photonics
An the emerging frontier area of research in Photonics is the design and 
development of efficient materials that exhibit interesting modes of linear as 
well as nonlinear optical response. One of the promising classes of candidate 
materials in this regard is that of nanomaterials, hybrids and composites, with 
enhanced and modified mechanisms of nonlinear optical response. This talk 
presents the basic physics of optical response of nanomaterials and outlines 
Stronglystrategies for their efficient utilization for applications in Photonics.
Strongly quantum confined semiconductor quantum dots are of particular 
interest in this regard, given the truly remarkable modification of the electronic 
and optical properties arising out of spatial confinement. Various mechanisms 
of nonlinear absorption such as multiphoton absorption, saturable absorption 
and reverse saturable absorption have been established in quantum confined 
systems.
Strategies are presented towards meeting the challenge of packaging size-
tuned nanoclusters in transparent and stable host membranes in a cost-
effective and eco-friendly manner. Simple and economic methods can be 
designed to develop novel nanocomposites with large nonlinear optical 
absorption, stability, versatility and convenience of use. New kinds of oxide 
nanoxlusters are synthesized in a variety of shapes such as micro and 
nanoflowers and nanobelts by simple chemical methods and these are found 
to have interesting optical as well as magnetic properties. Functionalization of 
carbon and porphyrin nanotubes has been shown to render them water-
soluble and to alter their physical properties remarkably. An overview of the 
new vistas of design of stable photonic nanocomposites will be presented 
with specific examples.
The Charm and Challenge of Nonlinear Optics
The twentieth century has witnessed the fascinating metamorphosis of optics 
to photonics and then to nanophotonics. The idea of understanding light-
matter interaction and harnessing light and other forms of electromagnetic 
radiation for a variety of applications has been evolving through different 
stages in an exciting manner. This talk starts with basic physics of light-matter 
interaction and outlines the physics of interaction of intense light with exotic 
forms of matter, in a step-by-step manner.
The major step that led to the emergence of nonlinear optics as a frontier 
area of science and technology is the practical realization of laser action. With 
these powerful sources of intense light, it became feasible to unravel novel 
physical processes such as wave mixing phenomena, sum-and-difference 
frequency generation, optical phase conjugation, photonic switching, self 
focusing and pulse shaping, to name a few. New physical mechanisms of 
nonlinear refraction and absorption are being encountered and understood. 
Many of which have a large scope in achieving smart optical limiting, spatial 
and temporal pulse shaping and soliton propagation, optical computing, 
switching and data processing, tunable solid state laser design and saturable 
absorption.
A major challenge of nonlinear optics continues to be the difficulty in the 
availability of ideal materials which exhibit sufficiently large and fast optical 
nonlinearity for efficient use in device applications. The approach here is to 
go beyond naturally available materials and to design of newer media through 
the avenues of molecular engineering and quantum engineering. For 
example, structure-modified organic polymers, low dimensional materials 
such as quantum dot structures and photonic crystals are being examined as 
new classes of nonlinear optical materials. Extreme nonlinearity is also 
expected to be useful in emerging applications such as convenient and 
efficient generation of X-rays, super continuum/white light laser sources, 
biomedical applications such as multi photon imaging.
Page 2 of 3
C. Vijayan | SPIE Homepage: SPIE
18/7/2017
https://spie.org/membership/visiting-lecturers/lecturer-directory/vijayan-c

-----
Page 3 of 3
C. Vijayan | SPIE Homepage: SPIE
18/7/2017
https://spie.org/membership/visiting-lecturers/lecturer-directory/vijayan-c

-----
