Faculty
Professor
William Dunford
Power electronics, power supplies, motor controls, energy management.
William Dunford earned both his BSc in electrical engineering and his MSc in machines and power systems from Imperial College, University of London. Dr. 
Dunford completed his PhD at the University of Toronto in 1982.
Dr. Dunford's interests are in power conversion, ranging from utility to microelectronic applications. He have been involved with several photovoltaic application
from water pumping to utility interfaces.This year Dr. Dunford is advising the UBC Solar Car Club. His present focus is in the energy efficiency and smart grid are
Dr. Dunford is actively involved with various local companies, particularly in power quality and energy management applications.
Latest Publications 
Research Areas
• Energy Systems
Research Groups
• Electric Power and Energy Systems Group
Courses
ELEC 352
Electric Energy Systems 
Balanced and unbalanced three phase energy systems.  Modeling of generators, transmission lines, transformers and loads.  High voltage 
transmission technology, low voltage industrial domestic distribution. [3-0-2] Prerequisites: 
CPEN/ELEC 
499
Undergraduate Thesis
Guideline This course is intended as a vehicle to provide undergraduate students with research experience. Students can take on a research effort
for 3 credits or for 6 credits. The undergraduate thesis typically can be used to satisfy technical elective requirements. This document summarize
some of the procedures for this course and is intended as a guide for students and faculty members. Who is eligible to register for CPEN/ELEC 
499? 
ELEC 493
Nanotechnology and Microsystems Capstone Design Project
Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world nanotechnology and microsystems engineering problem. Projects 
are provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities. Includes coverage of topics such as project management. Students mus
have fourth year standing and be registered in the Nanotechnology and Microsystems Option to take this course. Find out more about Capstones
Prerequisite 
Industrial Drives
Typical mechanical loads; dynamic and static characteristics and analysis of DC and AC drives; microprocessor-based controllers; commercial 
choices of drives for various applications. 
EECE 559
Energy Storage Systems
Superconducting Magnetic Energy Storage. Pumped Storage. Other possible technologies. System modeling and control. 
ELEC 342
Electro-Mechanical Energy Conversion and Transmission
Three phase power; transformers and harmonics; magnetic materials and circuits, electromechanical energy conversion; DC machines; rotating 
magnetic field, AC induction and synchronous machines; variable frequency operation, brushless DC machines; stepper and single-phase motors
Credit will only be given for one of EECE 373 or EECE 374. [3-3*-1] 
ELEC 344
Applied Electronics and Electromechanics
Characteristics of semiconductor devices; analog circuits; force and torque production; motor principles and torque-speed characteristics; 
principles of power electronics. Not open to students in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Course Outline We will study a variety of AC and 
DC electromechanical devices. The prerequisite skills for this course in include basic circuit analysis ability (i.e. Ohm’s Law, Kirchoff’s Voltage 
and Current laws.)   Prerequisite 
Latest Publications
2015
Demand Side Storage to Increase Hydroelectric Generation Efficiency
Journal Article | IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy
2015
Evaluation of NERC's BRD frequency control standard in hydroelectric generation
Conference Paper | 2015 IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting
2015
Transient Stability Assessment of power systems through Wide-Area Monitoring System
Conference Paper | 2015 IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting
2013
A Zero-Voltage Switching Full-Bridge DC–DC Converter With Capacitive Output Filter for Plug-In Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
Battery Charging
Journal Article | Power Electronics, IEEE Transactions on
2013
An LLC resonant DC–DC converter for wide output voltage range battery charging applications
Journal Article | Power Electronics, IEEE Transactions on
Show more
Page 1 of 2
William Dunford | Electrical and Computer Engineering | UBC
9/17/2019
https://www.ece.ubc.ca/faculty/william-dunford

-----
Electrical and Computer Engineering 
2332 Main Mall
Vancouver, BC Canada V6T 1Z4 
Tel +1.604.822.2872 
Fax +1.604.822.5949 
Email: info@ece.ubc.ca
Contact
Office: KAIS 3043 
Electrical and Computer Engineering
The University of British Columbia
3043 - 2332 Main Mall
Vancouver BC V6T 1Z4
Canada
wgd@ece.ubc.ca
(604) 822-6660 
Website:
http://www.ece.ubc.ca/~wgd
Page 2 of 2
William Dunford | Electrical and Computer Engineering | UBC
9/17/2019
https://www.ece.ubc.ca/faculty/william-dunford

-----
