Dr. Xiao-Ping Zhang
https://www.ee.ryerson.ca/~xzhang/[2/6/2018 1:44:39 PM]
Dr. Xiao-Ping (Steven) Zhang
Professor, P.Eng., Senior Member, IEEE
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering 
Finance Department at the Ted Rogers School of Management 
Ryerson University
Contact Information
350 Victoria Street 
Toronto, Ontario 
CANADA, M5B 2K3
Office : Centre for Computing and Engineering (245 Church St), ENG 451
Voice : (416) 979-5000 ext. 6686 
Fax    : (416) 979-5280 
Email : xzhang at ee dot ryerson dot ca
Postdoc Positions Available Now (NEW Update!)
 
Short Biography
Research Interests
My area of interest is signal/information processing and machine learning based theoretical and
application research. Currently, my specific interests include the following aspects:
o    Multimedia Signal/Content Processing and Big Data Analytics
My current multimedia research focuses not only on traditional image/video problems, such as object
segmentation and extraction and noise suppression, but also on multimedia content processing
including the statistical model based/content-based video and image analysis, digital watermarking,
data hiding, content-based information retrieval (CBIR), and e-commerce applications. Multimedia
communication is an emerging application in which signal processing and communications are
pertinent. With the rapid development of broadband, Internet, and the exponential increase of
multimedia content online, multimedia content analysis and processing are critical to further
improvement. We would like to develop new techniques and theories not only to address traditional
multimedia communication issues but more to address research problems in video/image/audio
content analysis applications using signal processing, statistical modeling and machine learning
methods.
o    Signal/Information Processing for Finance, Economics and Marketing
I have extended my research to the areas of finance, economics and marketing. The Chicago school
of economics maintains that a free market can optimally allocate resources and correctly price assets
most of the time. The end of the cold war and the rapid development of emerging economies like
China are prime examples of market power. A free market operates as a powerful distributed
information processor – people and markets in aggregate can accurately and promptly process
information. While economists often take efficient information processing for granted, my goal as a

-----
Dr. Xiao-Ping Zhang
https://www.ee.ryerson.ca/~xzhang/[2/6/2018 1:44:39 PM]
researcher is to determine the rationale for these phenomena and develop information processing
tools to analyze the massive amount of digital information in the financial market. Intrigued by the
information processing power of the free market and impressed by the world-class thinkers at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business, I took my sabbatical there in 2006-2008.
o    Signal Processing for Sensor Networks
Modern digital communication systems and sensor networks demand advanced detection/estimation,
tracking and data fusion techniques. My research is to use the signal processing and machine learning
algorithms to solve specific problems in sensor networks, radar systems and communication systems.
We are developing novel data fusion and target tracking methods based on statistical filtering in radar
and sensor networks.
o    Wavelets, Filterbanks and Time-Frequency/Time-Scale Analysis
For over two decades, the use of wavelet transforms (WT) has been ubiquitous in signal processing
due to the power of its flexible time-frequency resolution and the existence of fast algorithms. It has
become a better alternative to traditional Fourier analysis especially for non-stationary, time-varying
signals. In many applications, the signal in the wavelet domain has exhibited good statistical
properties. My objective is to exploit these properties and design innovative algorithms as efficient
and effective features to solve specific application problems.
 
Selected Publications and Patents (Some e-prints available.)
(NEW!) My perspective article on AI for Finance: “To the Victor Go
the Spoils: AI in Financial Markets,” IEEE Signal Processing
Magazine, November 2017.
(NEW!) Tutorial: “Signal Processing for Finance, Economics, and
Marketing,” IEEE Signal Processing Magazine. [PDF]
Conference Organization
(NEW!) General Co-Chair, the 46th IEEE International
Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP
2021), Toronto, Canada (Mark your calendar!)
(NEW!) General Co-Chair, 2017 GlobalSIP Symposium on Signal
and Information Processing for Finance and Business, November
14-16, 2017, Montreal, Canada
General Chair, IEEE International Workshop on Multimedia Signal
Processing - MMSP2015
Tutorial in IJCNN2017: Graphical Probabilistic Modeling and
Machine Learning for Multimedia Content Analysis

-----
Dr. Xiao-Ping Zhang
https://www.ee.ryerson.ca/~xzhang/[2/6/2018 1:44:39 PM]
Tutorial in ICASSP2014: Signal Processing for Finance, Economics
and Marketing Modeling and Information Processing
Editorship
Senior Area Editor, IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing
Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Image Processing
Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Multimedia
Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video
Technology
Associate Editor, IEEE Signal Processing Letters
Research Lab -- Communications and Signal Processing Applications
Lab (CASPAL)
Teaching
Entrepreneur
o    EidoSearch.com
Lifestyle Activities (Running, Sports, and Arts)
Please contact me if you are self-motivated and wish to do your graduate
study with me. 
Please read this FAQ carefully before you contact me.
 

-----
