Professor YARON SILBERBERG 
 
EDUCATION 
 
1984  
PhD, Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel 
1975  
MSc, Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel 
1972 
BSc, Physics, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel   
 
CURRENT POSITION 
 
1999 – 
Professor, Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science 
Rehovot, Israel 
 
PREVIOUS POSITIONS 
 
1994 – 1999  Assoc. Professor, Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot, Israel 
1985 – 1994  Member of Technical Staff, Bellcore, New Jersey, USA 
1984 – 1985 Postdoctoral Member of Staff, Bell Laboratories, New Jersey, USA 
 
 
 
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES  
 
2008 – 
 
Head, Crown Photonics Centre, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 
2002 – 2008 
 Dean, Faculty of Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel 
1999 – 2002 
 Chair, Dept. of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science, 
Rehovot  
 
COMMISSIONS OF TRUST (recent) 
 
2015 – 
 
Member of the Board, Technion – Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, 
Israel  
2015  
– 
ERC Special Review Workgroup on the ERC Synergy program 
2014  
– 
Editorial Board, Journal of Physics B, IOP, UK 
2012 – 
Review Board, DFG Excellence Initiative Program, Germany 
 
 
AWARDS 
 
- 
Member, Israeli Academy of Sciences and Humanities  
- 
Weizmann Prize in Exact Science, Israel, 2015  
- 
Max Born Award of the Optical Society of America, 2013  
- 
Landau Prize in Exact Sciences, Israel, 2011  
- 
Advanced ERC Grant “Quami”, 2011-2016  
- 
Chair, GRC on Nonlinear Optics (1995), GRC on Quantum Control (2009) 
- 
Fellow of the Optical Society of America, 1991 
 

-----
GROUP ALUMNI: 
 
PhD students now in Academic Positions:  
Hagai Eisenberg (Hebrew U., Jerusalem)  
Dvir Yelin (Technion, Haifa) *   
Nirit Dudovich (Weizmann, Rehovot) *  
Dan Oron (Weizmann, Rehovot) *  
Avi Pe’er (Bar Ilan, Ramat Gan)  
Barak Dayan (Weizmann, Rehovot)  
Haim Suchowski (Tel Aviv U, Tel Aviv) *  
Adi Natan (SLAC, US) 
Ori Katz (Hebrew U, Jerusalem) *  
Eugene Frumker (Ben Gurion U, Beer Sheva) 
Yaron Bromberg (Hebrew U, Jerusalem)  
 
* Winners of ERC starter/consolidator grants 
 
Postdocs now in Academic Positions:  
Moshe Horowiz (Technion, Haifa) 
Roberto Morandotti (INRS, Montreal, Canada) 
Vaibhav Prabhudesai (ITFR, Mumbai, India) 
Barry Bruner (Staff Sci., Weizmann) 
Sunil Kumar (ITT Delhi, India). 
  
 
MAJOR CONTRIBUTIONS BY THE GROUP  
 
Sub-picosecond pulses from a semiconductor laser (1984)  
The Digital Optical Switch - an adiabatic integrated optics switch (1987).  
Spatial solitons in planar optical waveguides (1989).  
Light bullets - spatiotemporal collapse of optical pulses (1990)  
A liquid-crystal based switching device for WDM systems (1993).  
Third-Harmonic Generation Microscopy (1997).  
Adaptive pulse compression and shaping. (1997)  
Coherent control of two-photon transitions (1998).  
Discrete Spatial Solitons (1998)  
Single-pulse CARS microscopy (2002).  
Nonlinear optics with single photons (2005). S 
haping of single photons (2005).  
Temporal Focusing Microscopy (2005).  
Anderson Localization in waveguide arrays (2008).  
Quantum optics in waveguide arrays (2009).  
High NOON states (2010).  
Looking around corners - wavefont shaping (2012).  
Non-invasive Microscopy through scattering layers (2014) 
 
 

-----
RESEARCH PROFILE 
 
After a short postdoctoral period at Bell Laboratories, I started my independent research 
career as a Member of Staff at Bellcore in New Jersey, where I focused mainly in the 
field of nonlinear optics, in particular nonlinear guided-wave and fibre optics. I proposed 
and initiated the first studies of spatial optical solitons, an area that became a very active 
field for me and many others; Spatio-temporal effects in nonlinear optics, and in 
particular the idea of light bullets, were some of the main themes I studied.  
 
After joining the Weizmann Institute in 1994 I kept a leadership role in nonlinear optics. 
The experimental demonstration of discrete solitons started a very intense worldwide 
effort in nonlinear properties of periodic systems and photonic lattices. The analogy 
between photons in periodic optical systems and electrons in condense matter makes this 
systems ideal for observing quantum wave phenomena such as Bloch oscillations, 
Anderson localizations etc., while nonlinearities enables to explore interactions in such 
systems.  
 
In parallel, I started an experimental effort in quantum coherent control, which is the 
area relevant for this proposal. We have demonstrated the power of quantum control by 
carefully crafted femtosecond pulses on two-photon absorption and Raman 
interactions in atomic and molecular systems. In parallel, we have developed a new 
research effort in nonlinear microscopy, pioneering and patenting new techniques such 
as third-harmonic generation microscopy and temporal-focusing microscopy. We 
combined coherent control ideas with femtosecond pulse shaping to develop the 
technique of single-pulse CARS microscopy, where crafted pulses enabled high spectral 
resolution is spite of their broad spectral width. Most relevant here is also our recent 
breakthrough in two-dimensional Raman spectroscopy, where coherent control 
techniques help to overcome fundamental hurdles for implementing this technique. 
 
Motivated by our interest in imaging and microscopy, we are also investigating the 
interaction of light with complex media, and techniques to mitigate random scattering. 
Using wavefront shaping and nonlinear optical principles, we have demonstrated 
various techniques related to imaging through scattering layers.    
 
Finally, we are also conducting a vigorous program in quantum optics, translating 
concepts of ultrafast coherent control into nonclassical light, for example, for shaping of 
single photons and the generation of nonclassical light such as high-NOON states and 
the study of quantum random walks in optical lattices. 
 
For more details and full list of publications, see 
 http://www.weizmann.ac.il/complex/silberberg   
 
 
 

-----
