 
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Yiannos Manoli 
 Professor, Director of the Fritz Huettinger Chair of Microelectronics  
 
 
Biography 
Yiannos Manoli was born in Famagusta, Cyprus, in 1954. As a Fulbright scholar, he received the 
B.A. degree (summa cum laude) in Physics and Mathematics from Lawrence University in 
Appleton, Wisconsin, in 1978 and the M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer 
Science from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1980. He obtained the Dr.-Ing. degree in 
Electrical Engineering from the Gerhard Mercator Universität in Duisburg, Germany, in 1987. 
From 1980 to 1984 he was a research assistant at the Universität of Dortmund, Germany, in the 
field of digital and analog MOS integrated circuit design with an emphasis on A/D and D/A 
converters. This was also the topic of his dissertation: "Components and Architectures for Fast 
High-Resolution A/D and D/A Converters". 
 
Phone +49 (0) 761 / 203-7591  
Email: ymanoli@imtek.uni-freiburg.de 
University of Freiburg  
Department of Microsystems Engineering - IMTEK  
Fritz Huettinger Chair of Microelectronics  
Georges-Koehler-Allee 102  
D-79110 Freiburg, Germany 

-----
In 1985 he joined the newly founded Fraunhofer Institute of Microelectronic Circuits and 
Systems in Duisburg where he established a design group for microsystem and microcontroller 
integrated circuits. His work there concentrated on mixed-signal CMOS circuits especially for 
monolithic integrated sensors such as surface micromachined pressure sensors, flow sensors, 
biosensors etc. Another highlight of his work was the design of application specific 
microcontrollers as well as novel architectures and development tools for such microcontrollers. 
In 1996, he was appointed Chair of Microelectronics at the Department of Electrical Engineering 
of the University of Saarland in Saarbruecken, Germany. His research interests were focused on 
the design of low-voltage and low-power Delta Sigma converters and on VLSI embedded system 
design. As department head (1998-2000) he initiated a number of reforms that boosted the 
research activities and enhanced the teaching curriculum of the department. 
In 2001, he joined the Department of Microsystems Engineering (IMTEK) at the University of 
Freiburg, Germany where he established the Chair of Microelectronics. In memory of the founder 
of today's Trumpf Huettinger GmbH, this chair was endowed by the Fritz Huettinger Foundation in 
2010 and has since carried the name "Fritz Huettinger Chair of Microelectronics". It was the first 
time in the recent history of the University of Freiburg that a named professorship has been 
awarded. 
His current research interests are the design of low-voltage/low-power mixed-signal CMOS 
circuits, energy harvesting electronics, sensor read-out circuits as well as Analog-to-Digital 
converters with over 300 papers published in these areas. 
Together with his colleague Roland Zengerle, he has been director of the "Institute 
of Micromachining and Information Technology" of the “Hahn-Schickard” in Villingen-
Schwenningen and Freiburg, Germany, since 2005. This non-profit, applied research organization 
focuses on innovations in MEMS technologies and low-power sensor applications. Here the 
research activities concentrate on the field of inertial sensors and sensor fusion as well as 
on energy harvesting with an emphasis on motion and vibration energy transducers. 
From 2008 until 2015 Professor Manoli served as Associate Dean and as Dean of the Faculty of 
Engineering. He was instrumental in planning the new Department of Sustainable Systems 
Engineering - INATECH established in 2015. 
In 2000 he had the opportunity to join a research project with the Sensor Division of Motorola for 
half a year in Phoenix, Arizona. In 2006, he spent his sabbatical semester with Intel in Santa 
Clara, California, working on the read-out electronics for a high-resolution accelerometer. 

-----
Yiannos Manoli received the best paper award of the "European Solid-State Circuits Conference" 
(ESCCIRC 1988) for the paper "A Self-Calibration Method for Fast High-Resolution A/D and D/A 
Converters". His group received awards for the following papers: "Novel Non-resonant Vibration 
Transducer for Energy Harvesting" at the Workshop on Micro and Nanotechnology for Energy 
Applications (PowerMEMS 2005), "Systematic Approach to the Synthesis of Continuous-Time 
Cascaded Sigma-Delta Modulators" at the IEEE International Midwest Symposium on Circuits 
and Systems (MWSCAS 2007), "A Unified Environment for Design Entry and 3D Animation of 
Analog Circuit Schematics" at the IEEE International Conference on Microelectronic Systems 
Education (MSE 2007), “A Self-Adaptive Switched-Capacitor Voltage Converter with Dynamic 
Input Load Control for Energy Harvesting” at the "European Solid-State Circuits Conference" 
(ESCCIRC 2009), and "Autonomous and Self-Starting Efficient Micro Energy Harvesting Interface 
with Adaptive MPPT, Buffer Monitoring, and Voltage Stabilization" at the "European Solid-State 
Circuits Conference" (ESSCIRC 2012). 
The MSE-2007 award was granted for Spicy VOLTsim, a web-based application for the animation 
and visualization of analog circuits for which Yiannos Manoli also received the Media Prize of the 
University of Freiburg in 2005. Further developments of SpicyVOLTsim were supported with a 
"Fellowship for Innovations in University Teaching" of the Baden-Wuerttemberg Foundation in 
2011. He was the first to receive the Best Teaching Award of the Faculty of Engineering when it 
was introduced in 2008. For his creative contributions to an interactive teaching of 
microelectronics, he also received the Excellence in Teaching Award of the University of Freiburg 
and the Teaching Award of the State of Baden-Württemberg, both in 2010. 
Professor Manoli served as a Distinguished Lecturer of the IEEE as well as guest editor of the 
“IEEE Transactions on VLSI Systems” and the “IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits”. He is on the 
Senior Editorial Board of the “IEEE Journal on Emerging and Selected Topics in Circuits and 
Systems” and on the Editorial Board of the “Journal of Low Power Electronics”. He has also 
served on the committees of a number of conferences such as the International Solid-State 
Circuits Conference ISSCC, the European Solid-State Circuits Conference (ESSCIRC) and the 
International Electron Devices Meeting (IEDM). He was Program Chair (2001) and General Chair 
(2002) of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Design ICCD. He is a member 
of VDE, Phi Beta Kappa, Mortar Board, and senior member of the IEEE. 
Yiannos Manoli is married to Astrid Strasburger-Manoli and has three children Martha, Katina and 
Manolis. 
 
 

-----
 
 

-----
 
 
 
 
 
 

-----
 
 
 
 
 
 

-----
