Yuning Li
Professor, Chemical Engineering
Research interests: molecular engineering of polymer/transparent semiconductors for organic elec-
tronics (OTFT, OPV, DSC, OLED) and low temp-process conductive inks on plastic substrates
Biography
Professor Yuning Li in the Department of Chemical Engineering is working on nanomaterials/electron-
ic materials for organic electronic applications with emphases on following topics.
Education
• PhD, Polymer Materials, Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (JAIST), Japan, 
1999
• MS, Polymer Materials, Dalian University of Technology, China, 1988
• BS, Polymer Materials, Dalian University of Technology, China, 1985
WATERLOO INSTITUTE FOR NANOTECHNOLOGY 
Page 1 of 3
Yuning Li | Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology | University of Waterloo
1/26/2018
https://uwaterloo.ca/institute-nanotechnology/people-profiles/yuning-li

-----
EXPAND ALL
COLLAPSE ALL
Organic semiconductors for Organic Thin Film Transistors (OTFTs)
OTFTs are the fundamental building elements for many organic electronics, such as displays, Ra-
dio-Frequency Identification (RFID) tags, bio-/chemical sensors, etc.  Most solution-processable 
organic semiconductors show poor electrical performance with charge carrier mobility of < 0.1 
cm2/V.s in OTFTs, which severely limits their applications. Our group recently developed several 
new p-type polymer semiconductors with mobility of ~1 cm2/V.s, which is among the highest 
reported for polymer semiconductors.  Based on our recent results, it seems that there is still plen-
ty room for improvement in terms of electrical performance for polymer semiconductors. Our re-
search in this area will focus on the chemical and electronic structural design, molecular organiza-
tion, fundamental understanding of the charge transport mechanism and application of high per-
formance polymer semiconductors.
Until recently the majority of research efforts have been made on the development of unipolar 
p-type and n-type polymer semiconductors for OTFTs. However, for digital logic circuits that re-
quire high reliability, high noise immunity, and low power dissipation, Complementary-symmetry 
Metal–Oxide–Semiconductor (CMOS)-like device structures comprising complementary p-chan-
nel and n-channel transistors are preferred. Through a proper structural design, organic semicon-
ductors can be amibipolar, i.e., conducting both electrons and holes, which are suitable for fabri-
cating amibipolar OTFTs in CMOS-like circuits. Our group has developed high performance am-
bipolar polymer semiconductors which showed balanced high electron and hole mobilities of 
~0.4 cm2/V.s in OTFTs. We will continue working on the design of ambipolar polymer semicon-
ductors with higher mobilities and better air stability. We are also seeking collaborations with fac-
ulty members in the Electrical Engineering to work on the design, printing, and evaluation of digi-
tal circuits using our ambipolar polymers.
Semiconductors for Organic Photovoltaics (OPV)
OPV or organic solar cells are of great commercial interests due to their light weight, robustness, 
and ease of manufacturing. Two types of organic solar cells have been mostly investigated: bulk-
heterojunction (BHJ) cells and dye-sensitized cells (DSC). Currently, low efficiency and poor sta-
bility of OPV devices hinder their applications. Prof. Li’s group is currently focusing on the follow-
ing aspects.
• Materials development 
◦ P-type polymers with optimum band gaps (1.2-1.7 eV) for maximum light harvesting 
and optimum energy levels to minimize energy losses
◦ Novel n-type semiconductors
• Light management 
RESEARCH
Page 2 of 3
Yuning Li | Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology | University of Waterloo
1/26/2018
https://uwaterloo.ca/institute-nanotechnology/people-profiles/yuning-li

-----
◦ Plasmonic enhancement using metal nanoparticles, which can potentially increase 
the power conversion efficiency by 30-40%
• Nanophase separation control 
◦ Prescribed nanophase-separated donor-acceptor architectures using nanomaterials 
versus the conventional uncontrollable/unstable nanophase separation structures 
obtained through passive molecular self-assembly techniques
• Low temperature processed DSC 
◦ Low-temperature, solution processed mesoporous photoconductors (e.g., 
nanocrystalline TiO2, ZnO), which enables the use of flexible plastic substrates
◦ Low band gap organic dyes to improve light harvesting
Printable conductors for various electronics
Conductive elements are required for almost all electronics. Nanoparticle-based conductive inks 
are particularly useful for printed organic electronics, since nanoparticles of < ~100 nm can be co-
alesced into conductive films at a low temperature of <200 °C, which is compatible to the plastic 
substrates and organic semiconductors. Prof. Li has invented and co-invented several metal nano-
particle-based conductive inks and one of them has been commercialized by Xerox (the “Silver 
Bullet” ink). Our group will apply this nanotechnology one step further to the following applica-
tions.
• Low temperature nanoparticle-based conductive inks for printing transparent electrodes for 
organic solar cells
• Low cost nanoparticle-based conductive inks without using expensive Au or Ag for 
ubiquitous electronics
PUBLICATIONS
CONTACT
Page 3 of 3
Yuning Li | Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology | University of Waterloo
1/26/2018
https://uwaterloo.ca/institute-nanotechnology/people-profiles/yuning-li

-----
